hello everyone oracle is one of the most
widely used database in most of the top
tech companies to keep its data safe and
secure every company wants to use best
of the database to make sure their
client data and company details are
protected they use structured query
language which is also known as sql it
is a set of statements with which all
programs and users access data in an
oracle database
sounds amazing right
keeping this amazing facts in mind we at
great learning came up with an idea on
bringing up a tutorial on how to work
with oracle sql and what are the basic
concepts around the same
so that our learners will get an
extensive idea on how to use oracle sql
and add this skill in their resume
so without wasting much time let's get
started with this tutorial on oracle sql
[Music]
if you haven't subscribed to our channel
yet i want to request you to hit the
subscribe button and turn on the
notifications bell so that you don't
miss out on any new updates or video
releases from great learning if you
enjoy this video show us some love and
like this video knowledge increases by
sharing so make sure you share this
video with your friends and colleagues
make sure to comment on the video any
queries or suggestions and i will
respond to your comments okay so now
that we are in our agenda let's
understand which all topics we are going
to cover in this particular tutorial
what are the basic concepts that we are
going to learn from this oracle scale
tutorial
so first of all we are going to
introduce you to the concept of dbms
rdbms sql all these things because you
need to understand why do we need to
save data and how we can actually save
this data earlier where we used to save
the data and now in this era 2021 where
we are actually saving our data right
the next topic we are going to see is
creation of table so we are going to
understand that in oracle sql or in sql
how do we actually create a table
first we create a table and then we
insert the data so how do we actually
create the table and how do we insert
the data inside the table those all
things you are going to see in this
second topic
in the third topic we are going to start
up with oracle we are going to do the
setup and installation will download
oracle i will show you the steps from
where to download and how to download
and then the installation steps as well
once our oracle is ready we are going to
understand the relational model first we
are going to understand selection
projection and more of the other things
about rdbms which is nothing but
relational database management system
after that we are going to move to the
miscellaneous topics in which we are
going to cover most of the small small
topics such as alias and then the
logical operators those all things we
are going to cover in this miscellaneous
topics these are some small small topics
which are very very essential if you are
learning oracle sql
the next topic we are going to
understand the operators as keywords so
all those operators which we are going
to learn how to use these operators as
keywords in oracle that is what we are
going to see in this particular topic
moving to the next one we are going to
understand what is functions in oracle
yes in all priming languages we know
what is function but in database what is
function that is what i am going to tell
you in this particular section so in
this topic there are a lot of functions
which are predefined and we are going to
see how to use those functions to make
our work easy
the next particular topic is a very
important topic if you think about it in
a interview perspective because in
interviews clauses is one of the topic
which has been asked several number of
times
so please focus on this particular topic
very very sincerely because klaus is
such a topic which is very vast and
there are so many classes which you need
to work upon and if you don't practice
with clauses you will not be able to get
the output or you will not be able to
learn sql in a very staggered manner the
next topic is nested query so we are
going to see how to write a query inside
a query now if you don't know what is
the query don't worry in the beginning
of the session itself which is creation
of table i'm going to tell you what is a
query right now how to write a query
inside a query
that is what is called as nested query
we are going to look upon that
and
then we are going to move to the most
important topic which is sql commands
which is ddl dml dcl and tcl all these
commands we are going to see what do
they do how do they do it and what these
commands syntax are
the last topic we are going to
understand the database objects some
database objects
and stored procedure as well
so as you can see the agenda topics if
you can see here is very fast and there
are a lot of topics we have which we are
covering so sit back and start watching
this particular tutorial it will be
really good if you can do the practical
things with me in your laptop so that
will become easy for you to understand
it in within the hour right so now that
you are beginning with our particular
oracle scale tutorial the first topic is
introduction so let's see what is there
in this introduction
now
let's say
that we have a particular student in a
college right
and we want some information from that
particular student so what we will have
we'll have his name
maybe his
role number or registration number
and then we'll have some
address right
and then maybe the contact number
right or let's say mobile number so
these are some of the information which
we want from this particular boy right
now if you can see these all
informations are nothing but what so
these are called as data
correct
now why i'm telling you what is data
because there's a lot of difference
between data and database correct so now
first of all we need to understand that
what is the difference between data and
database
data is something which is very
particular about one person or one
particular individual
now if you talk about a college with a
group of students
and i want those group of students
all details that means i want his detail
also her detail also her detail also and
his details also right now obviously
all of these people all of these
students name roll number address mobile
number i want it and it will be a huge
data right
that means i have to create some table
and inside that i have to write all
these informations
right to make it look very
structured correct and that is what is
nothing but data base so that whole
table is nothing but not database so if
you talk about data data is one
particular information but database is a
group of information correct so this is
what is the difference between both of
these things now if you're very sure
about what is data and database
now you must be very sure that white is
called as oracle data based and not only
oracle data
right
okay let's move to the next part
suppose if i ask you that how you will
manage this particular data or how you
will manage the database
how you will you do it
so let's say that that i want to record
my information somewhere so what i'll do
i'll take a sheet of paper and i'll
write my information there right
correct but
does that sheet of paper will be
maintained
20 years after or 30 years later
will it be the same
i don't think so right because it's just
a sheet of paper correct
now how we can manage those data how we
can do that
now obviously in your mind one answer
will be coming which is computer which
we actually save our data right now also
if you're using a laptop you have many
of your data informations your music
file video files images everything is
stored in your laptop right
okay so how to manage managing refers to
storing permanently and retrieving
efficiently
okay now managing doesn't mean that
you're just storing it
but it also means that you are
retrieving it efficiently
let's say that i have a bunch of
students and i want all students record
details to be in a sheet of paper right
now one particular student detail in a
sheet of paper is perfectly fine but
when you have 50 or 100 students details
in a sheet of paper it becomes little
bit messier why is it
suppose that i have a two sheet of paper
and in those two sheet of paper i have
all the data of my batch of students all
all my 50 200 students details right
now i want to find the detail of one
particular individual whose name is
rohan
now i need to search from starting till
the last where is rohan detail
it will take a lot of time that is what
is retrieving
so retrieving the data is not efficient
here right and that is what we need to
also look upon so a sheet of paper will
not work here
now the question arises is so then how
to store data a small volume of facts
permanently and how to retrieve get the
stored facts efficiently
or the another question is how to store
database which is large volume of facts
and figures permanently and how to
retrieve those efficiently right so
these are the two questions which we
need a solution now so let's go back to
some
early 90s or
a decade ago and let's see what happened
there
now we used to use a ledger so if you
know what is a ledger if you go to a
hotel restaurant right now also in many
parts of india
people are using ledgers if you go to a
hotel to stay right now ledger is
something like a very big and thick
diary in which they store all the
informations correct now most of the
modern hotels and all they are using tab
and
pads and
obviously the laptops but
many of the places are still using the
ledgers in ledgers they actually record
all of your data and then
they use it for
next purposes right
or to store data efficiently but now
let's say that i have a ledger and i am
storing these particular data of some
students in my ledger okay now in the
below ledger one page has data right one
page one single page has the data but if
you talk about the book
the whole book
is nothing but the database right if you
can see all pages and many books put
together forms database which is large
volume of facts and figures
now
is this a correct idea or is this a
great idea to save our data or to save
the database
let's see
problems associated in managing data
database are as following now let's
understand what are the following
challenges so we have security
challenges obviously why security
challenges because
to save these ledgers we have to have a
go down or we have to have some place
where security is there right and we
cannot just assign one security guard to
actually look upon all the ledgers right
not a very great thought correct now
backup issues now suppose that you have
a 10 years
ledger okay 10 years ledger means a lot
of books and a lot of ledgers right now
how you can
back it up that means obviously you
won't be keeping all those ledgers for
10 years or 20 years in your go down
right
it's just a sheet of paper or it's just
a diary right
it can get rotten or it anything can
happen based on weather conditions right
it will not be safe inside right so how
will you back it up
you can't just make a new diary or make
a new ledger and copy all the
information in the a real ledger to this
new ledger you won't be able to do that
because it needs a lot of effort it
needs a lot of resource it needs a lot
of employees to do that right so nobody
will copy
all the content of the old ledger to a
new ledger
correct imagine you are just writing and
copying down all the things from new
ledger to a old ledger it doesn't sounds
good right
next is space issues obviously all the
10 years ledger 20 years later you won't
be able to keep it somewhere
it's not a great idea correct
human resource issue again you need a
lot of people to work around this ledger
to keep it safe to keep the data secured
right it should not happen like anybody
will enter your go down and anybody can
change the ledger data they'll cut your
name and they'll write your name
something like that it should not happen
correct so it's
not safe it's not secure
now costly it's very costly because
you have to buy the ledgers you have to
keep it safe you have to have human
resources you have to have most of the
people around those ledgers to keep it
safe and secured inefficient in
retrieving facts if you want to search
your
some of the details
what you have to do you have to tell the
particular people that hey
you know i came to this hotel long back
ago and i want to search those details
now can you please show me the hotel
manager will go to their go down they
will
put up they will they will bring that
particular ledger down and then they
will search if this is not the ledger
they'll go to the next one if next one
is the ledger they will again scroll to
all of the ended pages and they have to
search your name and it can happen that
we have the similar names like rhythmic
many times in the ledger so you have to
find out which particular rhythmic you
are correct so like that it will take a
lot of effort a lot of time will be
wasted in searching or retrieving the
facts or data correct so these were all
of the issues now computer came into
existence looking into these all
problems in 1940 right but computers
were very costly very heavy and very
very expensive right so people did not
think of using computers but in late
1950s computers prices came low as
compared to 1940 and people thought of
using computer to manage facts and
figures
but there were no means to do it now
what is the meaning of no means to do it
let's understand pointer by pointer now
in 1960s
high-level priming language developers
suggested to make use of priming
language to manage store facts and
figures
now i think we are close enough to the
error that we are talking about right
but we were having a lot of problems in
this particular era also let's
understand what are the problems same
programming languages we use a concept
called data type variables arrays right
and one we can make use of it to store
the facts and figures right
now don't you think that people in that
era were having so many problems
around using computer or working with
computer people are very happy because
computer did not have disadvantages like
ledges and now they have a way to store
facts and figures in computer and they
stored started to store facts and
figures in computer using primary
languages
but
as the size of facts and figures
increased priming language failed to
manage it
so prominent languages are also bound to
have some limited capacity and that is
why
these are also now not very
much efficient priming language is
successful only in managing data but not
database
okay so using priming language you can
save some of the data but not a huge
database
now this is where the concept of
software came comes in which is database
management software so this is one
software which is used to manage store
data permanently and retrieve the large
amount of data efficiently and this is
what people were looking for now this
particular has many examples right now
we have oracle database mysql database
db2 information and there are lot more
so this is one of the particular
software which we now use right but now
understand what is the difference
between this and the ledger and the
computer programming languages let's
understand that because this is what
will lead you to oracle dbms and that's
how you will actually use that
particular software
so suppose we have a ledger and we are
saving these informations right so these
id name age gender marks send these all
are called as
fields so we have all the fields
and then we have all the values which
are which are also called as data right
so these are the two main things which
we saw in the ledger we have only two
main things which
we need to save our data right keeping
this fact in mind people came up to an
idea that how we can actually save this
field and value into a
hard disk of the computer right because
all your data will be saved in the hard
disk of the computer right so a hard
disk is nothing but where all the data
are saved now how we can actually
take this build and value and put it
inside the hard disk we can't do it like
manually correct we can't do it like
that so
if i have a hard disk we can't put this
information directly into our hard disk
we need something
we were using programming languages but
priming languages are not
accessible
to actually capture all the database or
all the different data
it is only
has limited capacity and it is only
being able to
access or store limited amount of data
that's it
so
we started to use now which is dbms okay
so we use database management system
software
to
say that hey database can you please do
the following things now database is
having a similar kind of structure which
you always maintain okay which they
always maintain
and if you want to tell the dbms that
hey we want to save some data we have to
tell him the procedure how to do it
so let's say the very first procedure is
create the table we need to tell dbms
that hey we need to first create the
table
which table let's say some name student
table the field of the ledger should be
the columns of the table whatever field
we have given in the laser that is
nothing but the
columns of the table that should be the
columns of the table
give a name to the table we have already
given student
insert the data inside the table
whatever values or data is inside the
ledger that should go inside the table
now what you have you have a table the
column field names table name in which
you have inserted the data this is what
you have to follow to keep the data or
to store the data
present in the ledger onto the hard disk
of the computer now dbms will do this
and will keep the data saved in your
hard disk
this is what happens when you use dbms
what is the difference between oracle
and then sql what is this sql we have
understood that oracle is a dbms
software database but what is this sql
then let's understand
so when we talk to any person let's say
that she's saying hi goku how are you so
so the person says hi sita i'm good what
about you
what language we are using we are using
english language to communicate
with our
particular person or an individual
correct now if i want to talk to all the
dbms softwares all all the databases
that we have right like we have ms sql
we have mysql we have oracle we have
hadoop we have post gre sql now to talk
to all these particular database we
can't use english language correct we
need to have some language to talk to
these databases
to give the commands to these databases
to actually tell the database what you
have to do right so we have to use here
what is called as sql okay so it is a
language used to communicate with
database management system we'll be
using oracle data
base to store our data okay but sql will
be the language skill will be the actual
language which will be writing to tell
the dbms what he has to do
fine
now this was all about the introduction
this was all about the historical and
the latest trends what is happening in
storing and retrieving data or database
okay now let's understand how does it
appear when you are actually storing a
data from a ledger to a
dbms right or to your
any oracle or any other dbms softwares
so if you have a ledger looking like
this
this particular data using sql will look
something like this
okay so this is how the table looks like
and this is how the fields are the
columns
understand that the fields id name is
gender marks and same these are the
columns
and the values are nothing but our rows
which you can see here correct
now
let's understand
what and how to create a table what is
the syntax of it and how we can actually
do something to create a table which we
have seen earlier in our previous topic
right so let's see what is this sql
command
how to use this sql command and what do
we call it as
now how to insert data into the dbms by
creating the table
so
if i have this particular
data in our ledger how we can actually
store it
in our dbms using sql so this is one of
the
query
which we have to write now what i'm
saying what what is this word i'm using
here query right now this query word is
very very important if you're learning
database
because query is something which you
write to solve a problem okay or query
is something which is a problem by
itself right query means a problem
so we have a problem what is the problem
we want these data to be stored in the
table so we write a query this is the
query we write this query and once we
execute this query this particular table
will be created
okay so any particular statement a set
of statement which you write in sql is
nothing but called as
query okay so what we are writing here
we are writing create table
student
with we have all the
fields in it okay not only the fields
but we also have the data types
plus we also have the
maximum number of uh
letters or digits how much you want
those things let's understand one by one
so create table is a command
right create table is a command which is
you can say
keywords okay so we have to use create
table to create a table in a dbms
student is the table name which you can
always change this is user defined so if
you want to write any other or you want
to give any other table name you can
give it
now we have the id we have the name we
have the age we have the gender marks
and same
obviously id age marks and sem you know
that these are numbers if you see here
52 26 98 8 these all are numbers right
so we have here number
right now id we know that it can be only
till 10 digits it should not exceed 10
digits right if it is exceeding 10 digit
my table or my dbms will is not gonna
accept it so you have given a particular
limited capacity to it which is 10.
similarly to name and gender we have
varchar2 which is another data type
don't worry we will see what is data
types and how does it look like how do
we write it in our other topics but
right now i'm just telling you that
these are the data types where cat 2 why
is it named as varchar2 not only varcad
that also i'm going to tell you in the
topic of data type
30 and six now these are again
limited capacity if you if you want to
write six letters only in this
particular gender if you see male and
female that can be the only
uh
particular gender right so that is why
i've written here 6
30 the name will should not be longer
than
30 letters correct so this is how you
write a particular query once you
execute this you will get this kind of
thing
now one thing is missing here and if you
notice that is nothing but our data the
values and obviously because we have not
written a query to insert the values
correct and that is why only the table
is created correct now let's move to the
next part see if i have a lot of
data
in our ledger how do we do that so this
is another example of employee table and
just have a look how does it look like
right so this is how we have the
fields which is employee id name age
address salary department and experience
so these are all my fields and i've just
created a table
now let's understand
how to actually insert the data inside
this particular table because now we
have the table but now we need to insert
the data also inside it so let's
understand that
so we have a query which is insert into
student values now understand what is
this
see insert into is nothing but a command
likewise we are having create table
similarly we have insert into
a student is a table name now if you
remember student was the table name
which we created we are using the same
table name here if you like student one
student one you have not still created
so it will give an error so you have to
use that particular table which is
already created then only it can insert
values
then we have the values and inside the
values we have the all values which you
want to give
now understand
that
the order of all these values should be
the same
how you are putting it in the creation
of the table
so in the creation of the table if you
remember we were using
id name age gender marks and same
and in the same manner i am going to put
it here also so we have id
name
age gender marks and sam
right this is how you put it now some of
the questions will come into your mind
the first question is
why the numbers doesn't have a single
quote but the names or the gender or the
string or character sequence have a
single code
now that is an interesting fact in any
programming language or in any database
language even if you see
we always write the characters or the
strings in a double quote a single quote
and the numbers is written just like
that okay the next question which will
come into your mind is if we have to
write the data
and if you have want to insert the data
in the same order then what if i miss
out on some of the data suppose if i'm
not writing 52 i'm starting from aman
then what happens
now what will happen is
the sql will check that what is this
aman
now he knows that id can't be aman right
because id is a number she'll put a 0
here by default or null by default right
because he can understand that you have
not given an id value started from the
name value correct but
don't do that if you don't have the data
then obviously you will not be able to
write anything in the data but if you
have the data
don't just skip that otherwise it will
take a null or a zero value correct
so this is how i have inserted the data
and now you can see that this is how my
table is getting appeared right so we
have the first row and your second row
understand that for each row you have to
write this particular query now i'll be
thinking that okay see if i have 52 rows
that means i have to write all the 52
rows
statement like this
and this is very long this is time
taking right then how to do that in a
shorter way
that is what why we have the oracle dbms
so once you will do the oracle setup and
installation once it will download it
then you will be able to
see that how you can easily create a
table without writing the query
and how you can insert the data inside
the table without writing the query so
without writing the queries also you can
just directly go to oracle there's a
whole system there where you can just
put the values once you click on save it
will automatically get saved right so we
don't have to actually write the queries
but for your knowledge you should know
what are the queries how to write it and
how will it appear
correct so for
more of this students record you can see
that this is how it will look like
right
so this is one of the great example very
easy example but now it's time that we
move to practical things and we see how
oracle is working right
so now let's understand how we can
actually do the download of oracle
software and how we can install it right
so before going to the oracle
installation or to the google chrome and
understand how we can start it
let's understand what is this software
and how many types of softwares are like
this
so if you talk about oracle we have the
enterprise edition
okay we have the standard edition and we
have one edition for only practicing for
only learning right so if i move to our
google and we just write here oracle
download
right the very first thing which you can
see it is oracle database software
downloads so if i open it
you will be able to see that we have the
enterprise edition which is 19.5
and then if you scroll down you will
find
the oracle database express editions
which are 18c and 11g
now 11g is the express edition for
windows 64 for linux for windows and
these are only for learners to practice
right so we'll be using 11g itself so
what you do is once you click on right
click
let's say that i am clicking on that as
you can see this particular database
page is not taking me to the download
part of 11g
right
that means now oracle has removed 11g
from
this particular
official website okay
and they are trying to tell us that you
have to go for 18c express edition okay
so if i open this you can see now this
particular
two links which is one for linux and one
for windows now 11g also some time ago
this was also giving me a page something
like this right how 18c is giving me in
the same way this page used to come but
now it is not that means they have
removed it and now you can use 18c so
now once you download 18c express
edition this is having a lot of features
which you can use with oracle sql
developer tool okay now what is that
so
one is oracle at deep database and one
is oracle sql developer now oracle sql
developer is a software where you
actually write the query and you will
get the output right in oracle database
also you can do that but
oracle is more like a database as i said
oracle sql developer is a developer tool
where you actually write the sql
language and get the
queries or whatever
problem solution you want you find it
there okay
now
this particular express edition for
windows you can download it it is for
2gb i think uh it's written here it's of
2gb it will take a long time and you can
do that i've already done it
as you can see oracle xc18 for windows
64.
and it is the same way how your oracle
11g is gonna work but the question is
from where you will get 11g because now
you are learning and you don't want to
use 18c
right
once you are very fine with 11g express
edition then only i want you guys to
work on 18c because it's little bit of
complex
so
let's see how we can download 11g right
what you do is in google
just type oracle database 11g or express
edition whatever you want to write right
when you do that
you will get a lot of
websites from oracle.com itself a lot of
links from oracle.com itself but there
are more some links which you can see
here from
o7 planning and there are more of random
links which you can see right and these
people what they have done is they have
the
dot exe file and they have given if you
know publicly free so you can click on
any of those and you can get it
similarly i have done it you can see
here that i have got this particular zip
file correct similarly you have to do
you have to just download it some people
are also putting it in the drive and
giving it if you're not finding it we'll
put it in this video description so that
you will find this particular software
in the drive also okay now what you have
to do so we have the 11g express edition
windows 64 bit
what you will do is we will extract this
file here itself so we are extracting
the
file and we are getting this particular
disk one right open this click on setup
and now we are installing so one message
will pop up that do you want to allow
this app you can click on yes and let's
do the
extracting and installation of oracle
database 11g experts edition so it is
preparing to install and it says welcome
to the install shield wizard let's click
on next
let's accept the terms in license
agreement click on next
and let's click on next see we can
browse but i don't want to change the
location i want
it to be in the default place so click
on next
now here you have to set up your
password now understand that there are
two default database accounts right one
is cis and one is system if you see
enter and confirm password for the
database this password will be used for
both this is and system database account
so i'll be writing a very
default kind of password which you
should or anybody will not forget right
so normally for all the oracle we use a
password which is root one two three i
am just going to put root right so that
becomes very easy for me to
access anywhere whenever i want uh to
access the oracle database of mine so
i'm clicking on next clicking on install
and just wait for some time and it will
get installed right now this password
you should never get forget because this
password make sure that you are
working with oracle in any of the laptop
and in any situation right so do not
forget that particular password
so as you can see now we have finished
our installation and let's click on
finish
so
let's go to our
desktop
so now we are in our desktop and as you
can see there's a shortcut which is get
started with oracle database if i click
on it you will see that i am getting an
error right now the error is windows
cannot find http 127.0
colon there is some http port which is
missing here right so we have to
correct it now how to correct it will go
to our c drive so let's go back to our
this pc
c drive and in this c drive let's go to
our program files
and we have to find the oracle software
whatever we have downloaded let's move
to our program files
here
so as you can see we have got the oracle
exe let's open app let's open oracle
let's open product let's open 11.2.0
let's open the server now in the server
we can see the get started page right
let's click on properties
and if you look here we have the http
port here
and here what we need to have is
so you need to just
delete the percentage http port
percentage not the whole thing now let's
click on apply let's click on ok and
let's see whether it is opening or not
so let's double click on it again and
it is opening so let's see how does it
appear
so we have got the home web page of our
oracle and this is how it looks like if
you can't see i'm just zooming in so
that it appears
well for you
and you can see here that we have some
things oracle database x11.2
and this is how it looks like so let's
go to our application express
and here it is telling me the username
and password right so they remember we
have the default username we have one
which is sys
and another one password which we gave
as root let's login and here we are
right let's not save the password for
now now here you can see that we are in
our
sys
which is our system system right so we
are on our sys database and here they
are telling me that whether i want to
create a new one new uitable database or
i want to use the existing one
so i don't have any existing one right
now so i'm going to create a new one
and to this particular database username
i'm going to give ruthvig
right
or okay let's say rhythmic and here also
i'm going to give arithmetic
password i'm going to keep the same for
all of the things so that i never forget
what is my password for this or that
so for my particular schema we have the
root password and for this database also
we have the password which is root only
and i'm just going to create a workspace
now once you create the workspace you
will get a particular message which is
successfully created workspace with
to begin click here to login so i'm
going to click here now you can see
workspace really quick username right
quick i'm going to put the password root
and click on login now this is what is
your
main thing which you need to work upon
and this is where you will actually
start working on your queries writing
the commands and getting the output
so
let's see what are these things so we
have to go to sql workshop
and once you click on sql commands
you'll be able to see two windows with
one is this one and the other one is
this particular result right now you
must have understood what is this so
basically this is nothing but the main
place where you will write the query and
you will get the result of it right so
let's say that i am writing a particular
query
select
sys that from
dual okay
i've written this small command
right
let's run this
you can see here it is giving me an
output which is the system date
okay now what is dual what is from what
is select you don't worry about that
i've just taken an example and i've
given an idea that what is this so it is
giving me the system date right now what
is the date in the system in my system
so it's 25 8 and that is what it is
showing me correct so this is how you
will write the query and you will get
the output this is where you will do
that now let's go back to our home and
let me tell you something more about
this particular page
let's move to application builder
let's see what are the things here so we
don't have much of the things here okay
you don't have to care about this
application builder let's go to sql
workshop here most of the things you
have to know
let's click on object browser now this
is one of the place where all of your
tables will be appearing so if you see
we have all the tables here we have the
imp table which is by default it's
already created you can see this is how
the table is looking we have the column
name and we have the data type remember
about the ledger and the table this is
what it is we have the field names these
all are the field names and the column
names
and these are all the data types with
all the
values now label means whether that
particular column can be null or not so
employee number cannot be null but all
the other things can be null so this is
what is my
table
if i click on data i will be able to get
the data that means the records also so
if you can see these are all the records
of my table
correct if you want to edit you can edit
from here you want to edit the row you
can edit it so see you don't have to
write the query you can do it directly
that is what i was saying you now
department dept this is also one of the
table which is already given right so we
have the data
now let's move to
demo users demo stats something like
that we have now let's see how this this
emp table appears in my sql query so
what we have to do is we have to just go
to our command line and just write here
select star
from emp
now if i do that if i run it as you can
see you're getting the whole data in
front of you that means the whole
database the database which are having
one one individual data and everything
is displayed here now you can see more
than 10 rows available increase row
selected to view more rows that means
there are more rows here so what you
have to do you have to do it let's say
around 200 let's run and you will see
all your data so we have 14 rows which
is returned
right so this is how you can play with
the data you can get all these data
accordingly and this is what it is right
now let's move to sql workshop
again
and
if you can see here
create object is something which is
written here and we have the table
right
now remember i told you that you don't
have to write the query of create table
or insert into right this is what it is
so suppose if i want to create a table
let's say i want to create a table named
as student
right and the column name i want to give
here is let's say
roll number
i want to give here is
name
i'm going to give here is age
i'm going to give here is
gender
anodic gif
here
is
city
so these are the five columns which are
under give now select timestamp so roll
number obviously will be number
this will be the archive 2
age will be again a number
gender will be
again a varchar2 and city will be again
of archive 2 right now you can see in
all the numbers we have a precision and
we have a scale right
and then in varchar2 we have the only
scale correct
let's do one thing let's click on next
right if you can see what is happening
the scale for the column name is
required gender is required ct is
required that means all the particular
columns which we have varchar2 it needs
a scale value
it is much that you should give a scale
value so name i want to give it 30
and gender i want to give
let's say 8
and city i want to give
let's say 10 right so these are the
things let's click on next
and once you click on next you'll be
able to
get into the next different section
which is primary key now what is primary
key what is foreign key what are
constants those all things we are going
to look upon in the
next topic which is relational
database main system but right now let's
say that i don't have any primary key
because we don't know what is primary
key right and foreign key also we will
not select anything so we'll just click
on next constraints also we don't know
anything what is it so let's create
table now this is asking a confirmation
that whether this all things are correct
which you have written
and it is also giving me a query already
written
this is the query which is already
written and this is what i actually
showed you in my slide
and we don't have to actually write this
particular thing anywhere right we just
create it and the table will get created
now what we can do is we can copy this
particular query
you can also click on create you can do
that but right now what i'm doing is i'm
copying this particular query
going to mysql workshop going to mysql
command
pasting this particular query here and
clicking on run what is it showing it
shows table created that means now my
table is created how can i check whether
my table is catered or not
one thing what you can do is you can
just write here
select
star
from student
let's see what happens
now if i select this particular query
and run it says no data found it doesn't
say that table is not there it just says
that no data found that means data is
not there in this table table is created
let's
confirm whether the table is created or
not so if i scroll down you will see
student table
right
and we have the table columns and all
but in the data there is no data here
right so if i click on insert row
i will get the detail and i can insert
it right now here itself so we don't
have to write the query of insert into
and all blah blah so roll number let's
say i'm writing one
name let's say i'm writing rhythmic
right is let's say i'm writing 26
gender let's say i'm writing male and
city let's say i am writing
bangalore
right let's create this now you can see
one of the row is created similarly you
can insert another row and let's say
that i am writing
some of the statements
right and let's create so two rows i
have inserted and you can see it in the
data let's
verify whether it is coming in my sql
command or not
so what you have to write again select
star from student from now i think you
have understood that what is the select
star from student what i am writing here
select staff from student is making sure
that it is selecting all the data from
your table and showing it to you so if i
click on run i am getting my two table
data which is
ritwik and for sachin right so this is
how you actually play with your oracle
and i hope this looks very easy for you
now what we'll do is we'll understand
the basic concept the miscellaneous
topics and all those things which i have
told you in our agenda and we'll start
working using this particular software
okay so now we are done with our oracle
setup download and installation and we
have seen how to create the table in an
oracle database and how do we actually
start creating the table inserting the
values and playing with the data right
now before moving into the miscellaneous
topics or the basic concepts around
oracle we have to first understand the
topic which is relational model so let's
understand what is this particular topic
and what is it about
so let's consider that we have two
tables and something like this so we
have this one table which is roll number
and student name so let's say that table
name here is
student table
okay and this particular table is marks
table
[Music]
right so we have these two tables these
two tables are separate tables so let's
see the fields so we have one roll
number field and one student name field
in student table so every roll number is
assigned with one particular student
name and in the marks table we have roll
number which is again a particular field
for marks table and one particular field
which is marks obtained for marks table
so assigned role number people have
these marks obtained
now if a question arises that you know
we have a query we have the query that
let's say we have a problem that
we want the details of
all the students
who have scored more than 40 right or
who has scored more than 45 something
like that and we want his roll number we
want his name and we also want his marks
okay so you want all his details
now considering these two tables we can
get roll number student name and marks
right why because we have one particular
column which is common in both the
tables so roll number is one of the
tables and because of this roll number
we are being able to say that we are
going to fetch roll number student name
and marks obtained
imagine that this roll number column is
not there in this table
will you be able to tell that how much
rohit has scored or how much mohan or
sanjay or kiran has scored
no right we won't be able to tell
because marks obtained then will not be
assigned with any roll number
correct so this is what is my problem
here and to the solution of this is
basically very easy what we have to do
is
we should have one particular column
which is matching with both the table
and we have this particular column roll
number which is matching with both the
tables and we can use this now
the table which will appear will look
something like this so we have the roll
number we have the student name assigned
with that roll number and we have the
marks assigned with that particular role
number itself so we have this particular
table which is a combined table the
resultant table correct and this is what
is called as relational model what is
relational model
the relation between the two tables
which is the common column so when you
have the common column you are actually
establishing a relation between the two
tables
let's take another example so we have
two tables again here we have the
country and capital so let's say that
this is the
capital table and this is content
currency so let's see that this is the
currency table now as you can see
current tree is one of the common column
field which is in both the tables right
so
if i'm asking that in greece country
which capital which currency is getting
used then it's athens and drachma
correct
similarly if i ask for
india
then for india country we don't have any
capital written here in this table and
we don't have any currency also written
here so for india there will be null
value for capital and currency
right but if i ask for italy usa china
japan australia and france we have all
the capital and currency in both the
tables and we will be able to get it
this is what is a relational model this
is what is a relational table now here
are some of the key terms which is
related let's understand what are these
terms so the first term is nothing but
relation now what is this relation
relation is nothing but the table so now
when i'm saying that this is a capital
table we don't say it's a table which
say it's a relation capital is one
relation currency is another relation
tuple tuple is nothing but the row
so if i talk about this particular row
grease athens right this is one row
which is called as tuple so now we will
not say that it's a row it's a tuple
right
next is nothing but attribute attribute
is nothing but the column
so if i talk about this country and
capital which is my column or field we
call it as
attribute okay so country capital
currency these all are my
nothing but
fields or attribute
now the next one is cardinality
cardinality is nothing but the number of
tuples in a relation
the amount of tuples
or the amount of rows in a
relation or a table is called as
cardinality so the number of rows in
this is one two three four five six
seven so here we have seven tuples
which is nothing but the number of
cardinality the degree is nothing but
the number of attributes that means
number of columns or number of fields so
degree for this relation is two because
we only have two columns or two fields
which is country and capital
okay domain of an attribute is nothing
but the values of an
attribute so if you look about this
attribute country
greece italy usa china japan australia
and france are nothing but the domain of
an attribute okay so these are the list
of a set of values
right
the next
two terms are very important which is
primary key and foreign key now
understand this in a very easy manner
because this is one of the
things which are very important to
understand this has been asked in a lot
of interview questions and many of
freshers are getting confused between
these two
primary key what is primary key primary
key are those keys which are actually
uniquely defining your table okay so
let's say
that i have this table which is capital
table right then capital table which
particular column is uniquely defining
country okay
country is all unique
capital is also unique
but
country is one of the particular
column
which is
relational which is showing relation
with the currency table
because in currency table also we have
country so country is our primary key
in this table
okay
now
suppose if i have here
one more column
which is
let's say country code
okay so we have some random codes we
have zero zero zero one zero two zero
three
zero four zero five zero six something
like this we have right now country code
is now much more
a uniquely identified thing when you
talk about this table because country
code can be a primary key also correct
let's say that in a in a school you have
a role number right why do we have a
role number because
maybe one of the student can have a
similar name let's say my name is ritwik
there is another student whose name is
ritwik but
right so to distinguish between these
two people or person which is raj and
kumar we have different role numbers
given and those role numbers are all
unique right and that is what is our
primary key in that case so in all the
tables you have to find the primary key
now if i talk about this particular
table which is roll number roll number
is something which is unique right so
this is my primary key
in this also we have the primary key
which is roll number correct okay
now we have understood what is primary
key that means in one table we will have
one primary key in this currency table
we have one primary key which is country
right we have one primary key always in
one table you should and must have one
primary key okay if you talk about a
student table which we have seen in our
oracle database we have seen
i roll number name age gender and then
code right or the pin code or the city
so here we have the roll number as the
primary key
now let's talk about what is foreign key
now understand
if you have two tables i am saying two
tables okay
in primary key
every table every each and every table
should have one primary key
when you talk about foreign key we talk
about two tables let's say relation one
and relation two
now here we have some columns and here
we have some columns
okay
now let's say that here we have the id
here we have name
and here we have subject id
and in this particular relational table
we have the
id
we have the subject name
and we have the subject faculty
okay
now understand what is happening here so
here what will happen id is my primary
key for this table so for this table
also there should be one primary key and
that is
subject name
because all subjects will be different
okay so this is my primary key for this
table why i'm not putting this
id as my primary key why i'm not doing
that because i know that these two
tables are related
and when two tables are related
and if already one particular column is
a primary key of the other table
this can't be a primary key of another
table this will be a
foreign key of another table okay why it
will be a foreign key
see if you are living in india you are
localized
but if you are going to singapore or you
are going to
usa or you are going to dubai you will
become foreign right same thing happens
here
when it is in r1 table id is nothing but
a
primary key which is the local
id local private key but when it goes to
the another table it becomes foreign a
very easy concept right so this is what
is all about the primary can foreign key
now let's move to our miscellaneous
topics and let's do it practically all
of these things and let's start using
these terms again and again so that you
will get an habit of using it
so now we are in our miscellaneous topic
section let's see what all miscellaneous
topics do we have in oracle sql and what
are the different topics that we are
going to see so first we will start with
projection
and then we'll move to selection and
then slowly we'll move to some of the
very interesting topics in our article
now
remember that these are very short
topics but very useful and don't think
that these are very small topics so
let's ignore that no
these are very important topics so let's
understand one by one projection now
projection is something when you want to
project something right let's say that
you have a college and you have a group
of students right
now if i want to
save data of all the students which will
appear something like this right we have
usn name gender age and mars correct now
projection is nothing but choosing which
column or expression the query shall
return
now suppose that you know when we want
to only present
name age
that's all from one table
let's say that we have a student table
and we want only name and age to be
projected that is what is displaying the
result right so projection is a process
of displaying the result using project
queries so project queries are all those
queries which is used to display
particular column to the user based on
the requirement from the user
so if i want only name and age
that is what i am giving the command to
the
oracle we are saying that i want only
name and age now suppose if you are
writing that i want
the details of
all the students whose age is greater
than 20
so now you have a condition now you are
now you want all those details whose age
is greater than 20 you are actually
wanting those
things which you want to project in your
resultant table right so that is what is
projection now if you look in this
particular example right according to
display age and marks of all the
students so i want to display only age
and marks of this student so i'll write
select age and marks from student
because i only want to display age and
math this is what is projection so write
equal to display name and usan of the
student whose age is greater than 21
now i want to display the name and usa
of a student whose age is greater than
21 so i have a condition so there we
will use this kind of query select name
usn because these are the only two
things i want to show i don't want to
show age but
the age of that particular student
should be greater than 21 that is what i
want and this is what is this it is
showing
the next is selection what is selection
now selection means which rows to be
returned that means
which all detail or data i want it to be
displayed so actually the process of
displaying the result using select
queries now let's say right equal to
display all the information of a student
named kavitham
remember the table we have name a gender
match and all
now i want to write a query to display
all the information of the student named
kavita so select star from student where
name equal
because i want all the details so i've
written star so select the star this was
the selection
how many rows do you want to select all
the rows i want to select so select star
correct
then another example of this is write
curve display name generation of a
student named ravi so the student named
ravi what all things you want you want
his name gender and us and that's all so
select name gender and usm from student
do not get confused between projection
and selection projection is
the data which you want to display
selection comes where you want to
display that particular row data one
particular row data that is what is
selection okay
don't get much into inside this because
in which ways you will do the queries
you will write the queries in oracle
database you will slowly understand what
is happening why are using select and
why you are using insert wire using
other commands now coming to the next
topic which is case sensitivity now
obviously in every common language we
have case sensitivity and in sql oracle
also we have case sensitivity but
to make sure that you know where all
case sensitivity is required
that is why i have this ppt sql keywords
are case sensitive select case
insensitive
sql keywords are case insensitive that
means select from where is order by
having group by these all are keywords
and it can be written in capital or
small letters usually it is written in
capital so that it clearly defines that
these are keywords but you can also
write it in lowercase itself
now understand these four point these
are very important and keep this in mind
till this video ends
keywords in sql is not case sensitive
these are case insensitive you can write
it in a small letter or capital network
and it will work
table names in sql are not case
sensitive again table names can also be
written in lowercase or uppercase it
doesn't care
column names in sql are not case
sensitive column names are also not case
sensitive that means those also can be
written in capital small letter it
doesn't matter
but
the data in sql is case sensitive now
this is very important data is case
sensitive why the reason is suppose if
you are saving one particular data is
ravi
which is small r a v i now if you are
asking for a particular data which is
capital r a v small i
obviously these two are having
much and many more differences if you
can see right name is same but the
writing pattern is different now this
ravi can be different person and this
ravi can be a different person right so
when it comes to data
data should match the data letters
capital small lowercase uppercase these
all things should match if it is not
matching then you will not get a result
so make sure that you know in any
database languages
the data is a sensitive other than that
everything is insensitive let's move and
let's see one of the examples if i'm
writing select name is from a student
where name equal to ravi if you can see
select is a keyword
it's case insensitive i've written it in
a very
different manner here name age these are
fields
from is a keyword student is a table
name where is a keyword name is a
field
these all things are case insensitive
but when it comes to ravi which is a
value which is a data is case sensitive
so if i write here small r a v i this
output will not come
because it's capital r a v i that is why
it is showing me capital r a v i
okay so these are nothing but my
keywords and this is my
table name and this is my
data and this is my column name right so
this is what is all about my case
sensitivity let's see one more example
which is select name is from student
where name equal to ravi now this is
wrong if you can see this is wrong data
so no data found right
now coming to the next topic which is
data types so what all data types do we
have in our database language a
derivative specifies a particular type
of data we have already seen one or two
data which is number and market two we
have some more which is integer floating
point boolean we will see one by one
what are those
now if you look here we have in
character type care
bracket to envircare and then long in
number we have the float and in date we
have data type that's it so these are
some of the built-in data types which we
have in sql let's understand one by one
what are the different features which
they provide
so in care it's a fixed length character
size okay
that means how much ever value you will
give to this car only that much letters
of characters can be kept and the
maximum size is 2 000 bytes per row
default size is one byte
where care and vertical two these are
variable length character data that
means it can be increased character is a
fixed length which cannot be increased
now what is it between where and where
can now if you look here
the
amount of bytes is what is the
difference it can store up to 2000 bytes
per row but varchar2 can store up to
4000 bytes per row okay some more
differences are written here but i am
not going to take that because this is
not that much important where can
if you know the difference of
the memory size that's enough
so people generally use varchar2 because
that is what is having the most
uh bytes per row so that is what they
use in number we have two things if you
remember in oracle database also i have
shown you two things
so you can see where we have a scale
but in number we have precision in scale
and that is what it is showing here so
we have in number precision and scale
precision goes to 1 to 38 and scale goes
from minus 84 to 127
we have similarly float and then date
and for date we have the
normal format which is dd mmm and yy and
this is what is the date format if you
want to use it you have to use this
parameter analysis date format to use
the date property but generally we don't
use these all things
we use it when we want to give date
particularly but even with number dates
can be written and generally we use
number back and to and care that's it
okay let's move to the operators and in
operators we have a lot of operators
which we use in oracle but the most
common ones are plus
minus multiplication and division now
why these are common ones let's
understand an operator is a reserved
word or a character used primarily in an
sql statement where clause to perform
operations
such as of comparison and arithmetic
operations asthmatic operations i have
just told you these operators are used
to specify conditions and skill spell
statement and serve as conjunctions for
multiple conditions in and statement
what is this what have i read so much
long
now understand if i go to my database
and if i say that let's go to my sql
workshop let's go to my object browser
let's go to my emp
we have a salary section here right if i
look into the data we have a salary here
right
now suppose that to this table i want to
write a code to which i want to say that
i want the names of the employee
with
their salary
increased by a thousand rupees
i want the salary to be increased by a
thousand rupees how we will do that so
let's say that i am going to spl
commands and i am writing a query
right
let's say i am writing select
name from
emp
right this is what i have written so
okay
i think it's not
it's e name it's not name right so i am
getting all my
e name can you see
i'm getting all the e names correct
now what i'm going to do is select ename
from emp
here what i want to do is
i want to use the operator and i want to
say that the salary what
i want it should get increased by a
2000 rupees
and then show me the table
so now the king which was having five
thousand as a salary now has increased
to seven thousand similarly for blake it
is now increased from
2008 1050 to 4850
right similarly for all of them the
salary is increased with 2 000 rupees
another question let's say that somebody
is asking you that i want employee names
with their annual salary that means in a
year how much they are making so what
you will do you will actually do
multiplication with 12 because you have
12 months salary into 12 will give you
how much
the
annual salary so this is nothing but
your 60 000 rupees for king public we
have 34 000 and then for clark we have
29 000 right so this is what is their
annual income half annual income six
that's multiplied with six and you'll
get half yearly
income
right this is where we use the
arithmetic operator which is plus minus
divide whatever you want to do you can
do it from there
right the precedence is given here plus
minus multiplication and division so
board mass rule you already know this is
what we use
now let's come to the next one which is
column alias now what is this column
alias remember that we all have one
nickname correct so if a guy named as
simon agarwal his home name or house
name will be something called as monu
right or anything else
now in sql also when we create a table
sometimes we give a column a very big
name right or a table a very big name
and
when we actually write a query every
time regarding that table
we
always have to use that table name or
column name which is very long and it's
very tedious so what we do we actually
make a another nickname for that
particular table or for that particular
column name okay so let's say that i
have usn name gender agent marks okay
now i think that usn should be changed
to registration number
i think that age should be changed to
years old and i think that mark should
be changed the score so this is what i
have done here and this is what is
called as alias okay elias means that a
temporary
name
to a particular column field or to a
table name right now how to do this
so we do this using
two methods we actually use as a keyword
or we directly write it like this right
so generally you must have seen that
employee e1 employee e2 why do we do
that because i want i don't want to
write employee employee every time i
want to make it a shortcut i want to
write e1 e2 something like that so the
alias name will never be reflected in
the actual table these are just the
temporary names not the actual names
which is present in the hard disk of the
computer okay so how do we write it
select usn as registration number name
gender age as years old marks as score
and this is how you will get the result
right
let's move to the next one which is
distinct keyword so i want the data
which is distinct
let's say that i have this table and i
want the data of distinct age
that means
not the repeated ones so 21 is repeated
twice 22 is repeated twice i don't want
it to display twice i want the distinct
data so i want 121 120
and 122. this is what you will get
okay this is what is distinct so how do
we use this keyword there may be a
situation when you need to retrieve
unique records and not multiple
duplicate records so you want unique
data this time we will use distinct
keyword it is used to avoid displaying
repeated values so select distinct age
from student all the unique age will be
shown from the student table
next one is concatenation operator and
concatenation if you remember in any
priming language if you know
concatenation is nothing but joining of
two things right so the operator
double pipe operated is used for
concatenation operator and is used to
combine multiple data or multiple column
so if i have this table and i want to
use name pipe operator age that means
these two columns will be combined
together so but i want to use it as a
alias name which is name and age so this
is where i'm using the alias okay i
don't want you to display his name type
is i want to display it as name and age
this is the column name okay
now this is what is the answer round 21
ravi 20
this is how you get the
concatenation done right
now one more example of this if you can
see here
this all are nothing but the
concatenation now see what i'm doing
here name
and connect concatenated with aged aged
is not a column field it's a string
so let's say the name is
rhythmic
then it will write aged
then it will write my age
so this is what will get printed read
quick age 26
amazing right okay so this is what is
concatenation operator
now comes the very interesting topic
which is dual table so dual table is a
default table which is defaultly given
by oracle and this particular table is
by default present you can use this
anytime to do any task now the tool
table is a special one row one column
table so if i want to show you how the
dual table looks like have a look let's
say that i am writing select star from
dual
see i have not created any dual kind of
table but still it shows me one row one
column the column name is dummy and the
row data is x right
and this is what is dual okay now what
does this dual do let's understand
so
dual is nothing but kind of a practice
table where you can
do whatever you want right so let's say
that i want to
print system date so we use this date
which i have shown you already right now
if i want to
see the description of this dual table
so what i can do is
i can just write description dual
that's it
now you can see what is in the
description table name is dual column is
dummy data type is varchar2 length is
one the label yes it can be null and
this is what is the dual table
description how can i look into any
table's description d e s c is the
keyword for it correct so want to see
how to word table looks like so we use
description okay you can also check the
system date from the dual table using
the following statement and you can also
check the arithmetic calculations on the
table table using the following
statement let's say i have some formula
and i want to execute that or an
equation i want to execute that so this
is what is the
dual table will give you so it'll give
you the answer whatever answer will come
and this is what is my dual table so
this was all the miscellaneous topics
around sql and oracle database now i
will jump to the new topic and let's
understand
what all things are there in that topic
so now we are in our next topic which is
operators as keywords and in this
particular
topic we are going to understand what
the different operators which we can use
and also the operators which acts as a
keyword in oracle database so first of
all we are going to understand the
relation operator which we already know
like the less than greater than equal to
those are nothing but our relational
operator
something like this right we also have
not equal to
with three symbols so don't get confused
in oracle
not equal to is actually denoted by
three symbols which is exclamation mark
equal to and then if you're using less
than greater than together and then the
exponent
and equal to together these all three
symbols are nothing but not equal to so
don't get confused and these particular
relation operators are usually used when
you are comparing two values in a
condition correct i show you some
examples also so let's say that we have
this table which we are using from the
starting usn name generation marks which
is a student table and we have to write
a query to display usn name and age of
all the students whose age is equal to
22.
so condition but based on
comparison right that we use relation
operator write a query to display us and
name and age of all spheres whose age is
greater than 20.
again comparison relation operator the
next question i require you to display
username and age of all the sources age
is lesser than 22. these are some
questions you guys can do it this is
very easy you have to just use the
operator and that's it you will get the
result so try to create as i've already
told try to create this particular table
and try to solve these questions
next question can be write a curve
display as a name and age of all sources
age is greater than or equal to 20 this
also you can do
lesser than or equal to 22 this also you
can do
and usage is not equal to 20 this also
we can do so in this particular last
question which is age is not equal to 20
you can use any of the three symbols try
to do it on your own try to see whether
you're getting the answer
as
imagined or not yes
so this is what is your precedence
operators so first we give person is
equal to then greater than less than
greater than equal to less than equal to
and it goes on correct operators have
keywords now this is very important and
this is why this topic was uh
discovered so the very first topic which
here comes in is between and operator
okay
now what is this between and operator
now let's say that i
have the relation operator and i want uh
the age greater than 20 or lesser than
20 or equal to 20 right
but what if i want that the age should
be between 20 and 22
then what will happen correct so how do
we solve that to solve that we will use
this kind of operator which acts as a
keyword so we don't actually use the
symbols or something but we use a
keyword to do this
when the condition has a range of values
to be compared we should be using
between an operator radically will
display all the information of the
students whose marks is in between 80
and 90 from the student table so all the
students whose margins is in between 80
and 90 we need to use between and so
select the star from the student where
marks between 80 and 90. so all the
student details who have got
the marks between 80 and 90 we the
details are getting displayed right
if you now look upon this particular
screenshot we have written select star
from the student where marks
not between 80 and 90. now we don't want
those values which are in between the
range but you want those values which
are outside that range so we have to
just use not between
okay so
if you want the values to be inside of
the range then we directly use between
and but if we don't want the values to
be in that range then we want when we
write
not between similar case if you use
higher value first and the lesser value
later then you will get a result of no
data from okay
see you are writing between 80 and 90
that makes sense because 80 and then 90
but if you're writing between 90 and 80
it doesn't make sense to oracle
or to sql so it will say no data from
now whenever comparison has to be done
with respect to set of values we have to
use the in operator okay and in operator
what happens
we have to write a query to display all
the information of the students whose
age is 20
and 22 from the student table so you
want all the details of the students
whose age is 20 and 22. so have a look
so
in the range now understand the
difference between between and in
in will give you a range which will
include only those data which you want
to
see
so in the bracket of in you will only
put that value which you want to see
there is no range as such but in between
and we have a range we have 80 to 90 90
to 100 something like that this is what
is the difference between between and
and in okay so we use select star from
student where age in 20 and 22 the
students who is having the age of 20 and
22 we use
in operator in that
right
okay now the next one is like keyword
now like keyword is very interesting
keyword why because this is very useful
in many of the sql queries the like of
it is used to search for a specified
pattern in a column so let's say that i
have a particular student table in which
there are many students names i want the
student table to sort out that means in
alphabetical manner so all the
uh names which is starting from a should
be above then b c d e f i want to sort
it out how we can do that we can use
like operator okay so suppose i want all
the a people names
above
so how will use that see there are two
pattern matching symbols in sql
percentage and underscore percentage is
also called as modulus it matches zero
or more characters so it either matches
zero characters or it will match more
characters
not one but underscore it matches
exactly one character
so suppose i have one particular name
which is raj and i have one particular
name which is ram
okay and if i'm writing r a underscore
so underscore is only taking one
character
so in that case r a underscore will give
me
raj also is the output ram also as the
output
okay but when you talk about modulus
then r a
modulus if you write raj ram
then more names like maybe rat maybe
some other name those all things will
come into picture let's take some
examples so write a query to display all
the details of the students names it
starts with r a
right so all the names which is starting
from r a
we are getting the output but we are not
using underscore we are using modulus
that means zero or more characters not
one so either zero or more characters so
we have one character m
and in another name we have v i two
characters right so more characters
try to create display all the details of
the students whose names fourth
character is i from the student table
whose names fourth character is i
only one character we need to find so we
need to use underscore so select star
from student where name like
so now
we need to find all the previous four
characters
but we know the fourth character is i
right so you'll use three underscores
and then i why three underscores because
we know that the fourth one is i
so the previous three letters we need to
identify and that is what we have done
so we have got getting ravi and kavita
because ravi and kavita is having the
fourth letter i
this is how you will use the like
keyword
now next one is is null
is null by looking into and reading the
name you must have understood what is it
let's understand what is if null it is
used to select only the records with
null values in the column only the null
values in the column will be there write
a query to display all the values of
this field whose age is null from
student table so let's consider a new
table because in the previous table we
are not having any null values so in
this table we are considering a null
value which is in 125 usa and 126 usm so
we have a particular age value where
null values are there and we need to
write a query to display all the details
of the student whose age is null from
student table so what will be the query
the query will be
select star from a student where age is
null whenever wherever the age is null
that particular detail will be shown to
you
now
next one is logical operators
logical operator we already know in many
of forming languages we have and or and
not right we also have this particular
logical operators here in our
oracle nsql then write query to display
all the details of the student whose
marks is
greater than 85 now understand that this
is one part of the question write a
query to display all details of the
sooners mark is greater than 85
and their names should be not start with
r from student table don't you think we
should use here like operator
and don't you think we should use here
the relational operator
right
now there's one more thing which is and
so we can use here logical operator and
right let's see what will be the answer
of this so i have to start from student
where marks is greater than 85
and
name not like are modulus because we
don't want
the
r names the names starting with r right
so we are getting all the names which is
not starting with r and the names are
scoring greater than 85
right so these are the questions these
are the ways the question will be asked
and this is how we have covered the
next topic which was operators
as keywords so now we are in our next
topic which is functions let's
understand
how and what are the functions which is
used in oracle to make our work easy to
write our queries easy right
now before moving into the each one of
the functions we should understand that
there are two types of functions
one is your single row function and one
is your multiple row function right
now in a skill
these two functions are basically used
and what is the meaning of single row
what is the meaning of multiple row we
can understand by its name itself single
row means which particular
functions will accept a single row as an
input okay or it accept multiple rows as
input but produces one result per row
okay so let's say that um
we have some of the functions which is
only giving me the result of one row
as an output that's it that is what is
single row multiple row is when it can
apply to multiple rows and it can give
me the result of multiple rows that is
what is multiple rules now once we will
move to the functions you will be able
to understand
what that is mean
so first we will understand single row
functions there are a lot of singular
functions we'll first complete that and
then we'll move to the multiple order
functions in multiple row functions we
have some aggregate functions which we
also call it as
uh group functions so these are nothing
but sum max min count average
now these all functions are multiple
functions and
these are some of the functions which
have been asked a lot of time in many
interviews
so let's start with the single row
function and let's understand what are
these
so first of all we have this particular
function write a query to display name
of all the students so we need to
display all the name of the students in
lower case letters from the table
student so you want it in a lower case
later so we have this particular
function which is lower
l-o-w-e-r that's it and whatever column
we want to present it in a lower case we
write that in the bracket so select
lower name from student right so we got
this particular output okay so this is
nothing but single row functions
let's move to the next one which is
write a query to display initial letter
capital of data rhythmic
so i have a data rhythmic okay and i
want it to be
written in such a manner that the first
letter only should be capital right so
we will use init cap which is initial
capitalize right so
this particular init cap method or
function will present me this output in
which the first letter is capital as is
nothing but alias because i want the
column name to be initial i have used
the dual table here okay
the next question is write query to
display all the names and gender of the
students in lower case where gender is
male now understand the question very
clearly i want to display all the names
and gender of the student in lower case
so first of all name and gender should
be using lower function
and then the condition is where gender
is equal to male so this is what is the
query and this is what is the output we
are getting
the next question is write a query to
concatenate data raj now one of the ways
to do it is this one you already know
that we can use the pipe operator to do
this but we also have one concat
function which we can directly use to do
the same
so both things will result into same
thing as you can see down right
the next function is right equally to
find the length of the string so if i
want to find the length of any string
we'll use length function and give me
the length of that particular string
right the next function is right query
to display the sub string of the string
sudeshna from third position extract six
characters now understand this question
very clearly there are a lot of
information given and you should be able
to use all this information when writing
the query
we have the string sedation
and it once from third position extracts
its characters that means there is some
function which uses these three
parameters so we have function which is
sub str which uses three parameters
first of all
the string
with which you want to play
and
the second parameter is nothing but the
position from where you want to start
the extraction
and the last parameter is nothing but
how many characters you want to extract
so it will extract
dish na because d is my third position
and from there six characters are d e s
h l a right so this is how the sub str
function will work let's move to the
next function which is right query to
display the position of the character a
in the string charter g okay so what is
happening here see we want one character
position
from the string
so a is one character the position of
that string is three we know that but
how can we tell the oracle or sql that
you know
this is the position of a character so
we use
in str okay in str will make sure that
you get the position of the
character from the string so we write
this string as the first parameter and
then we can press the second parameter
let's move to the next questions write a
query to trim the leading a in the
string akash akash is a string and you
want to trim the
leading a leading a means the very first
step because we have two a in this name
and you want to remove the first a
that's it now if you see select trimming
trim method we have used
leading a from akash so when you write
like this it
understands that you want to remove the
first a from the
string
if you want to remove the next a
then you can see here what is happening
now this is not the next a this is
exactly the last a okay so write a query
to trim the trailing a in the string
okay so don't think that
in between whatever a is coming will be
removed no the last a will be removed so
if you see trailing a from angelina so
angeline will be the answer because last
is getting removed if i write here
leading then answer will be
n g e l i n a correct
this is what is trimming
now let's move to the pad now look here
what is happening write a query to
display the data rhythmic in the format
at at at
that means four prefix acts and then
rhythmic how to do that this is what is
left padding so if you see we are using
l pad
and we are writing rhythmic
the total character should be 10
and which character i want to add at
which side left side so i want to add at
the rate in the left side of the
string
and the total amount or total length of
the character should be then 10.
so this is how lpad works similarly how
our pad will work it will move the
accurate symbol to the right of the
string and the total length of the
string is 10 so this is what you will
get the answer not only at the rate but
if you want to
put any other characters or letters or
symbols you can do that with it
okay now we are in our math function so
have a look what is happening what will
be the output of the following query
select around 95.528 comma 2 from dual
95.528 is a number in which i am using
the round method and saying that it
should round it close to
two decimal places so 95.528 will become
95.53 but what about trunk
now understand trunk is nothing but will
truncate so
135.256 now we are not using round so it
is not rounding it is just truncating
and making my decimal place to 2 which
is 135.25
okay so these are made functions which
are really very important try to
understand in a very good manner
okay next one is mod so what does this
do now modulus if you know it actually
gives you the reminder right so mod if
you use 60 by 2 so obviously no reminder
will be left it is 0
right
same manner right query to display the h
if age is null replace it with 0
so do you remember one table where we
were having age where it is having null
values so if any null value is there
normally that is displayed using a dash
right but what do we want we want that
it should be getting replaced by a 0
wherever null value is there so if any
null value is found we have to replace
the age value with 0
this is what is done here the next
question is write a query to display the
age if age is null replace it with 0
else replace it with 28
so if the value is null replace it with
otherwise replace the value with 28
so all the other values are replaced
with 28 right this is what is nvl2 and
the previous one was nvl correct null
value logic
fine let's move to the next one now
these are the
date methods so date functions how do we
use it write a query to display the
number of months between the dates 24th
december 2018 24th march 2018. how many
number of months are between these so we
use months between method right we can
also use between and but months between
will give you an exact answer if you see
here 24th december 2018 24 march 2018
and it's giving me nine months
right
in the same manner if you want to add
some months to a date so you want to add
seven months for the day 24th march so
you will write like this add months
method 24th march 2018 i want to add
seven months to it will become 24th
october 2018
right the next one if you want to find
the next day of a given day so write a
query to find the day date of the next
friday after the date 14th feb so after
the date 14th feb what is the coming
friday that's 21st
how and what method we have used next
day easy a very
easy and simple method names are given
here
now
oracle null if function accepts two
arguments to understand this it returns
a null value if the two arguments are
equal so see
null if hundred and hundred it returns a
null value if the two arguments are
equal so it is returning a null value
two values are equal if the two values
are not equal it will return me the
first argument
right
this is what is null if
so what is the benefit of this the
benefit of this is that if the two
values are equal it will let you know
that those values are equal and if d2l
is a different then should return the
first argument okay
now
we are close and coming to multiple row
functions but this is the last one
uh in single row so these are nothing
but the format of date format right
query to display the lname higher date
where the higher date should be
displayed in the format ddm
select name because i want that
and then higher date also i want to show
but in which format ddmm that means date
and month so i have to obviously change
this higher date format to character so
i'm using two car method this is very
important
again i'm repeating the higher date is
nothing but what it's a date format i
want to change this to character date
why because i want to display it in
another format it's a two-car
okay
let's say that there's a number let's
say write a query to display l name and
salary the salary should be displayed in
the format of dollar ninety nine triple
nine point nine nine what is this
salary you already know that's a number
now i want to represent into a character
because i have a dollar here can you see
and dollar can't be counted in a number
so we are changing it to character
so we are using two car
right
so whenever you want to change from one
particular area type to another you use
two car to num to date to these all
things we use
when we want to change the data from one
data type to another
okay so now is the time that we should
move and understand multiple row
functions and from here we are going to
discuss the multiple row functions which
are count max min sum and average so
write a query to display count of all
the rows present in student table count
star very easy you will get all the rows
present in the student table
write according to display the count of
a distinct age like that means
distinct values are how many not the
duplicate ones so distinct values are
six
two are duplicate okay
the next write a query to display the
minimum of all age present mean age very
easy we get the minimum age maximum max
age you get the maximum age right
the next is sum so sum of all marks i'm
getting here 694
average of all marks i'm getting 86.75
right very easy multiple row functions
where we can directly use the function
to calculate the count
the sum the average
the min and the max value
these were all of the functions and
methods which were used in oracle and
sql let's move to the next and very
important topic in sql language or
oracle database which is clauses
so let's understand now what are clauses
and why
this particular topic is very very
important
now when you talk about clauses
we have a lot of clauses which we can
use in our sql language
in our oracle dbms database
now these clauses basically tells us
that what all conditions can be used and
how so let me give you an example write
a query to display all the details of
all the students in the order of age
from student table now if you look here
this question is a little bit unique
other than
all the other examples which you have
seen till now because if you
look at this particular table of student
the question is to display all the
details of the students in the order of
age that means now we have don't have to
actually check whether the age is
greater than 20 or less than 25 or equal
to 20 or in between 20 and 25
not like that we have to now understand
and give me give the result
in the age order that means ascending
order of the age so first 20 should come
then 21 then 21 then 22 again 22 and
then 25 something like that right so
then we should use some of the clauses
so let's see which is the first clause
the first clause is order by
now the output of the sql query can be
predicted but the order in which the
rows get displayed cannot be predicted
right so the till now whatever examples
we have done you have seen that the
order is very random in all the results
right there is no particular order in
which the result is coming
but now because we have the order by
clause when we use order by we will get
all the results in a order ascending or
descending now what is the syntax of
using this order by so we use order by
and then column name
if you want to do it in a descending
order you have to write the particular
term d e s c it will come it as
descending but if you want to use it in
ascending you don't have to write
anything because the sending is by
default even if you write asc it will
give the default ascending order
okay so you can see here that i am
getting the ascending order in the
result 21 21 20 22 25 and then the other
values so the null values will come at
the last because oracle is confused
whether null should come before 20 or
after so it is putting it after
now the next one is group by let's
understand what is this group by clause
suppose that i have a question write a
query to display age and the least marks
scored by
each unique age student from the table
student
now understand the question it sounds
very difficult but it's very easy
we have to display the age
and the least marks scored by our each
unique adjustment
that means now we are not actually
wanting a duplicate value
what we want that we want the
age group student who is having the same
or similar age we want them to be
grouped in one group
so let's say that i have five students
two of them is of age 20 and two more
two of them is of age 21 and one of them
is of age 22
so i'll group the 20th age students in
one group i'll group
21st or 21 age students in one group and
the 22nd one student with a single
student in one group
okay and in all these groups i'll check
which particular student is having the
least mass scored that means in the
first group where i have the student
whose age is 20 i'll check with both of
them that who has the least score
okay something like that will happen so
if you look here select age comma min
marks that means minimum marks from
student group by age
okay so see now no repeated data is
coming
22 was repeated but i'm only getting 87.
why
because 22 was having 2 marks 1987 i am
getting only 87
am not getting 90 because 22 age group
students were in one group and the least
one is 87. now if you similarly look at
21 21 we have 2 mark 75 and 85 which is
at least 175 so 75 will be recorded
can you see here
and then 20 and 25 was alone so they
have 85 and 88 and the null value was
also
2 if you look here null value was also
289 and 95 89 is getting displayed
because that is the least one
so this is what is group when you have
similar value same matching value you
group that particular students or that
particular data in one group and then
you can apply some conditions on that so
these are nothing but the clauses let's
see one more example write a query to
display gender and the least marks
scored by each unique gender student
from the table student we have only two
gender male and female both male and
female will be grouped
together so there will be only two data
two rows will be shown can you see this
so from the male the least score is 85
and from the female the list score is 75
okay
similarly if you look at this particular
statement what we have done till now
skill group by clause is used in
collaboration with the select statement
we have always used the select statement
whenever we have used group by to
arrange identical data identical data
means unique data into groups
the group by clause follows where
follows the where clause in a select
statement and precedes the order by
clause now this statement is really very
important
see
we have so many clauses and all the
clauses have some order to write okay
you can't just write order by and then
you're writing where clause or you're
writing where clause and then you're
writing order by and then you're writing
group by you can't do that there's a
certain
order in which you have to write it so
the group by clause
follows the where clause
okay that means
after
where clause group by will come
in a select statement and precedes the
order by clause so group by clause
precedes the order by that means
the real sequence
of order of these are
this particular order so the group by
clause
follows the where clause
in a select statement and precedes the
order by clause right so this is how you
will actually arrange your particular
query that means if you have one
question in which you have the you have
to use the group by also the where also
and the order y also then you have to
use these three in the
same similar manner you can't do
shifting of these here and there
otherwise it will give error the group
by statement is often used with
aggregate functions count max means sum
and average to group the result set by
one or more column okay
now that we have understood the order by
and group by there is one more clause
which is having clause okay
but i'm not gonna show you that right
away because i have something extra to
tell you
now there are three clauses which you
have seen actually there are four which
is where
order by group by and having right
now why i'm not showing you the having
clause because there's a very big
question in the id industry that
why we have having clause when we
already have group by because having
clause whatever it does it can also be
done by a group by
then why is the need of having
now understand that
group by
is often used with aggregate functions
but having clause cannot be used with
aggregate functions
this is the main difference why do we
have having clause and we'll understand
what are the other differences which
makes it
distinguish between group by and having
okay
now let's move to the having clause and
let's understand what is there okay
before that just one example of group by
efficiency select gender max marks from
student group by gender right
one more question from group by right
equality to display age and count of the
age for all the students whose age is
equal to 21 from the table student we
are using count that means we are using
multiple row function
that means aggregate functions and this
is also used only by group by
so we have this select age count is from
student where a is 21 group by age
okay so wherever the count is
wherever the age is 21 show me the age
show me the count of those age there are
two students whose age is 21 that is
what i am getting
next write a query display age and the
maximum marks is scored by each unique
age student from the table student same
kind of question just twisted select age
max marks from student group by age
we are getting the maximum marks not the
minimum margins time
okay right query to display age and the
maximum mass is scored by each unique
age student whose maximum marks is
greater than 85 from the table student
now understand what we are doing here
see in the earlier till now whatever
problems we have seen we are just using
where and group by
right so after where we are using group
by correct
till now we have not used any such
particular program
where we have used something like this
now can you see what is happening
so the question is write a query to
display age and maximum marks so we are
displaying age maximum marks scored by
each unique age student
whose maximum marks
maximum marks is greater than 85
from the table student unique age
student that is why we are using group
by
right
so understand that how you have to use
the query and write a query we can't use
here where because
maximum mass greater than 85
we are using
having clause here we can't use where
maximum mass is greater than 85
right because we are using group by also
okay let's not get confused let me tell
you what is happening here the having
clause was added to sql because the
where keyword could not be used with
aggregate functions so if you look here
in this particular statement we are
using where clause because there is no
aggregate function here right
where there is no aggregate function
here but
when it comes to this particular
question
we are using here max marks and
if we write where here then it is wrong
because where cannot be used with
aggregate functions like count sum max
min and average
okay and that is why
we should
use having clause okay again i have
already told you this but reiterating
that these all clauses which is where
having order by and group by these all
have one sequence which you need to
follow the second thing is that why
there is a group by and having and where
clause also because there's a difference
between all these three group by
actually groups something
where and having does the same thing but
where cannot be used with aggregate
functions having can be used with
aggregate functions that is why we have
having clause so this is what is the
syntax of
whole query
starting from select from where group by
having and then order by this is the
sequence which you need to
understand and follow whenever you're
writing a query
next write a query to display age and
the maximum mass is scored by all
student
understand the question
in a staggered manner right according to
display age and the maximum marks scored
by all student whose age is greater than
and having maximum mass greater than 85
for each age
while displaying the data in ascending
order with respect to age
so we know that we will be using here
the
aggregate function
so
select age max marks from student where
age is greater than 19
then
grouped by age because it is asking for
each age so we know that we have to use
group by
having a max max greater than 85 why
because it is written here maximum mass
greater than 85
and we can't use where here because max
is a aggregate function that is why we
have used having
and then it should be ordered by age so
this is what we have
shown you one example using all our
different different clauses
so now we are in our next topic which is
nested query and this is also one of the
most important particular topic because
in most of the interviews if any
question has been asked you need to
identify whether you have to use
subquery or net query or is it just a
normal answer right and that particular
logic
if you know if you know that when to use
sub query or when not to use sub query
you understood sql database okay so
let's understand what is this nested
query obviously nested query means a
query inside a query but let's
understand
in an example manner what does it mean
so we have this table we remember this
particular table from the starting and
so we need usn name and gender
of all students whose marks is more than
ravi's marks from the table student
so we need to compare the details with
ravi's marks and then we need to display
okay
so select usn name gender from student
where
marks is greater than select marks from
student where name equal to ravi now
what is this you can see here inside the
bracket this is one query of select
statement and then we also have one more
student which is a select statement
now this is what is called as nested
query or sub queries when we have one
particular query inside another
query that is what is nothing but
subquery or nested query
now the question arises is which
particular query will get solved first
so the inner query should get resolved
first and then whatever will be the
result of it
that result will become the
solution for the first query as well
so
let's divide this particular query into
some small small chunks and let's
understand what we have done
so first of all this is the table and
this is the query which we have written
the inner query says select marks from
student where name equal to ravi so you
have to select the mark from student
where name equal to ravi so ravi's marks
if you can see is 88 right so what's
what will happen marks equal to 88 that
means this whole query
now gets changes to 88 so now the next
query will be select usa name gender
from student where marks is greater than
88 correct we have to actually print the
usa name and gender from student where
marks is greater than 88 so
we have this one
and we have this one correct and that is
what we will get in the result so we
have kavita we we have okay this one
also right
so this is the answer for that
particular query and this is what is
called as sub query now understand that
when you are reading the question
select a query to display us a name and
gender of all students whose mass is
more than ruby's marks on the table
student sounds very easy right sounds
like i know claus i know this that so i
will be able to do it but
this question
nobody was knowing that can be solved
using sub query in a very easy way so
that is what interviewer wants from you
they want that you should come up with a
very good solution of that question with
a very good query right query to display
the usn name up for all the student
whose age is same as archon's age from
the table student
so
obviously we'll use the subquery usn
name from student where age is equal to
select age from student where name is
equal to arjun i don't think we need an
explanation but still let's see what is
happening select age from the student
where name equal to arjun arjun what is
the age 22 so this will change to 22.
now
we have to use the usn name for student
where 8 is equal to 22 so we have 2
arjun and kavita that is what it is
showing me
right a sub query is a query within
another sql query and embedded within
the where clause
sub query is used to return data that
will be used in the main query as a
condition to further restrict the data
to be retrieved
there are some properties of sub queries
that should be include enclosed within
the parenthesis
sub query can have only one column in
the select clause
unless multiple columns are in the main
query for the sub query to compare its
selected columns and order by cannot be
used in sub query these are some of the
pointers which i'm underlining and these
are very important when you talk about
sub korean nested query
order by cannot be used in an sub query
although the main query can use an order
by so the outer query
can have the order y
but the inner query
cannot have the
order by
okay the group by can be used to perform
the same function as the order by in a
sub query so don't use order by in this
sub query if you cannot use
use group by
sub queries that return more than one
row can only be used with multiple value
operators such as the in operators
okay perfect let's move to the next
question write a query to display name
age whose age is equal to this student
named ray ram and marx is greater than a
student named anjina from the table
student now this particular question is
really very
frustrating why because you can see here
we need to display name
age whose age is equal to student name
dram
and
marks is greater than student named
anjuna let's understand what we have
seen
now there will be two sub queries
because we have two such statements
i hope you will be able to find the two
statements select name age from student
where age is equal to what equal to
student named ram select age from
student where name equal to ram
and the next is and
marks is greater than select
marks from student where name is equal
to anjuna
only one output which is ram 21
so now let's segregate and let's
understand this particular query what is
happening we have the table here select
marks from student where name is anjuna
so select marks from student
where name is anjuna what is the mark 75
so this particular statement
this whole statement will result me what
will result me 75
right the next select age from student
where name equal to ram
so where is the rom name
i want the age to be 21 so
this will become 21 now the first
statement will be that select name age
from student where age is equal to 21
and
marks is greater than 75 so let's find
that select name age so name and age we
want one student where 8 is equal to 21
8 is equal to 21 here and here
and marks is greater than 75 which is
only one which is ram
that is what we are getting
okay
now this is what we have done let's
understand one more
uh
so this is one
table which we have created student
department okay we have department id
usn core city and pin code uh how to
create this you already know you have to
create a table and you have to insert
these values i have written some codes
here so that you can actually copy it
down and put it in your oracle database
but time being let's understand what
problems or what questions i'm asking
here
so write a query to display the
department id of all the students from
student department table whose usn in
student table is equal to u.s indian
student department
usn in student table student table is
the earlier table student department is
the
this table okay so what is the question
here the question is
write a query to display the department
id of all the students from student
department table
now understand
select department id from student
department because that is what i need
to see
where
usn in now this is what we have written
the properties that in sub query we can
write
in
wherever we want so in sub queries we
have written in select usn from student
whatever usn is there in the student
table
whether it is matching in the student
department table if yes show it to me
that is what it is saying so let's
understand this particular example in
staggered manner so we have the student
table and we have the student department
table we have the
student table this one
and this is our new table which was
student department what is the first
line the first sub query select usn from
student so this is the usn from student
table so this all usns will be recorded
so we have 120 121 132 23 24 27 25 and
26 these are the usns which we have got
from student table the next is select
department id from student department
where usn in
120 121
now what is happening here basically all
those values are now coming in a bracket
within the in method right and what
happens in in operator in operator says
that
all these values should be matching so
120 should match 121 should match 122
123 all these values should match so
from the department id which is here
which all
usns are matching so we have 125
let's cut this 123 let's cut this 124
let's cut this 122 let's cut this and
and 126 so these are all my values and
depending on that what all department
ids we have 21 22 23 24 25 and 26
correct if you see here for 120 and for
127 we have not got any
department id right so this is what is
the
theoretical and practical knowledge on
nested query also known as sub query so
the question is write a query to display
the department id of all the students
from stu department table whose usn in
student table is equal to usn student
department
right so
we have to display the department id for
all the students from stu department
table whose usn instrument table
is equal to the usn student department
so let's say
that select department id from student
department student where the student
department is equal to student usm why
this is so easy why we are not using sub
query here because
here we are only making two things equal
the usn of student department and the
usn of the student table
both are the same things that is why we
are not actually needed to
use sub query right so you have to
understand
where you have to use sub query where
you have to use the nested queries and
where to not so in this example this was
easy one if you again read the questions
one by one you will understand that
where to use sub query and where to not
so this was all about nested query let's
move to the next topic and let's
understand what is that
so now we are in our next topic which is
joins in oracle sql and this topic is
really very important because joins is
such a topic which is asked by every
interviewers right and
from here
many questions will be asked and it will
be twisted and it can be very hard right
so please understand this topic very
carefully let's start with the
introduction of joins
sql is a structured query language right
now in structured query language we
write a query
when this query will run we will get
some output okay this output will be in
table format
right
now why this particular query has to be
written because there will be a question
okay
and we have to solve that question that
question will be solved using this query
let's say that i have two these two
tables please have a look at these two
tables
so we have the impidi name gender age
salary
the typical table of employee right what
a employee table should have an id the
name the gender the age and salary then
we have the employee department table
that means this particular table will
have the department information so we
have department id
employee id now look at this this
employee id and this employee id
is the primary key okay so in sql
we have
a concept which is nothing but rd
business right relational database
management system so what happens in
that
if you have two tables
those two tables should have one common
column okay
if it is having one common column then
only we can say that those two tables
can apply relational database management
system okay now we have those two tables
and both the tables have a one common
column which is impiding right
perfect then we have the extra columns
which is department city and pin code
great i have showed you the tables right
now what we have to do the question is
write a query to display name gender age
and marks of all employees whose impiety
in the employee table is equal to the
implied in the employment department
table too much long right the question
is like
i don't understand what is happening
here right so let's divide this question
into two parts
first part is write a query to display
name gender age and marks of all
employees
this is one part so what we need we need
to display the name gender age and marks
so that is why i've written here select
name age gender
okay so it's written here marks
let's say your salary
right so i need name is gender and
salary okay of all the employees from
employee department so one particular
thing is covered what is the next thing
the next thing is the condition see
whose employee id in the employee table
is equal to the employee id in the
employee
department that means
in this table
the employee id from the employee table
should be matching with the employee id
in the employment department table so
let's match it 206 is it there yes it's
there
8 is it there no it's not there 2 0 3
yes it is there 2 0 1 yes it is there 2
0 5 yes it is there
2 0 4 no it is not there 2 0 7 and 2 0
both are also there right so now we know
that there are six items
which is matching from both the tables
so these all six tables will be
shown here you can see here
these all data are shown here but what
is the condition that we have written
where employee dot imp id
that means from the employee table impid
is equal to
employee department inviting
easy so we have done the same thing
right
we have what we have done
we have
written that we want name a gender and
salary
from which table from employee and
employee department
where the employee id should match from
both the tables and that is what we have
written here
very easy query right so we got the
output also
but
the problem here is
what if i want to show in the result
department city and pin code also
till now what we are doing we are only
showing name a gender and salary but now
i want to show
the data or the column of
another table also then what you have to
do then you have to use the join keyword
how we can do that let's see
now we'll understand what is join so
join is a means for combining fields
from two tables by using values common
to which
so we have two tables
and we have to
join these two tables
using the common column which is there
so we have one common column which is
employee id in both the tables we can
join it there are different types of
joins inner left right full natural and
cross we are going to discuss these all
right away
have a look here let's understand what
is this have a look table one let's
consider that this is the orange color
table one then we have the table two
which is a green color
now these blue color things are nothing
but the common data
okay these are the common data
so when i talk about inner join it means
that it will return all rows from
both the tables
where there is at least one match in
both the table so all the common details
will be coming in the inner join all the
common details
in hindi if i speak
then
joby common data
post sorry data in donor table say fetch
holder
so from both the tables whatever the
common data is there that will be coming
in inner join
when you talk about left join
in left join the data of the left table
complete data of the left table
plus the common one can you see the
orange color and the blue color
so all the data from the left table
but only the common ones from the right
one
see return all rows from the left table
and the match draws from the right table
okay if you have understood this
then right join
will be very easy to understand but if
you have not understood the left join
don't worry we will go to left john and
we will see some examples and we'll
understand what is happening there okay
so don't worry about that
right join
simple the same thing opposite to left
join
here the right table all the data will
be coming
and only the common data will be coming
from the
another table
right so you can see the uh see the
portion which i'm engaging here
the blue one and the green one right so
basically all the data from the right
table
but only the common details only the
common data from the
other table
now let's talk about full join
full join is very very easy
it's nothing but sub
everything will be coming in the table
in the result resulting table
so the left table also complete
the right table also complete and the
common details also complete everything
will be coming so you can see return all
rows when there is a match in one of the
tables
right
this is what is your
different types of joins
the rest of the joins which is nothing
but natural cross self those are really
very easy if you understand these
then this is good to go now let's move
to the inner join let's understand with
the question
you remember the two tables which i
showed you employee and employment
department let's understand that
so
when it comes to inner join or join
right we can use both the terms we can
use join also we can use inner join also
now have a look write a query to display
all the details from employee and
employee department
so can i say that this is the first part
of the question so let's solve that
write a query to display
means we want all the details everything
every column we want every column from
employee and employee department where
the value of employee id and employee is
equal to the value of employee id in
employee department so will i write the
query like this
right select star why star because all
details we want
from which all tables i want from
employee and from employee department
on which condition basic i want
i want the condition basis to be
employee dot employee id equal to
employee department dot employee id
great my query is done and i'm getting
all the necessary columns can you see
employee id
name gender age salary these all five
columns where they're in employee table
then we have department id employee id
department city in code these five were
from the
employee department table right
now you can observe that everything is
coming here
so that means we have
joined the two table
but one more thing to focus here guys
employed id is coming twice right so
whenever you are using inner join
the common column from the two tables
will come
in twice that means duplicate column
will come so you can see employee id is
coming twice the data is also same only
the common detail is coming do you
remember this this particular drawing
what is inner join only the common
detail you see only the common detail is
coming
correct
okay we will talk about it later that
how can we remove this duplicate column
how can we remove it we will talk about
it later don't worry
let's come here can you see this inner
join okay can you see i've written your
inner join
now i'm changing the screenshot okay
let's have a look so
you know on a count of three i will
remove the screenshot one two
three can you see
now i'm not written inner join i've
written join
right and the output is same
the output is not changed so either you
use join or inner join it doesn't matter
it works the same okay it just joins and
gives you the common columns the column
details the common data
now here see again i have changed the
screenshot can you see employee e1
so i've given an alias name see employee
employee department is such a long name
right such a big name i can't use it
every time so i've given a alias name to
it like you have a home name and you
have a uh official name right so we have
do we have done like that so employee is
the official name but even is the home
name
like that e2
right so we are using e1 dot impid e2
dot m by d now we are not writing
employee dot impid imp department dot
impid no we are directly using the alias
name this is called as
elias
okay that means giving another name to
the table
now we are using inner join
we can also use join i hope you
understood the concept of
join or inner join right
now the next topic which is left join so
left join left outer join
now we have a writer query to display
all the details from employee and common
details from employee department by
using left join
it says that we have to use the left
join now understand the question
write a query to display all the details
from employee this is one part
that means i want every details from
employee
but
we want only the common details from
employee department not everything
so what is the situation here the
situation is that i from one table i
want everything but from other table i
want only the common details can we use
left join
so in the left join what will happen
see i have written the left join here
right
and the table which i have written on
the left hand side is which one employee
so from employee
all the details will come
but from the employee department only
the common details will come
easy
what will happen if you swap that
swap in the sense
what will happen if you write here
employee department
left join employee
then employee departments all detail
will come and employ
only common details will come
that i will show you later on
right now let's stick to this perfect so
now what you have to do we have to see
how it is coming how this thing is
working right so if you see
remember we have
eight data
in
both of the tables right employee table
we have eight data and in employee
department also we have eight data
if you see here
it should show me all the details from
employee can you see all the eight
data is shown here
but from employee department can you see
all the data
no only six data is coming why only six
data is coming because the two data
which we have
is not common
see
two zero four and two zero eight do we
have 208 and 204 here in this employee
department table
we don't have it right
that means two of the data are not
common
two of the data details are not given in
employee department and that is why that
is the reason it is not showing in our
left join table also
right
that is why these are blank and you see
these are blank why
because the data is not common in the
right hand side table
okay
now i have written here left join so you
can see left outer left outer join we
can write that also you right left join
left outer join doesn't matter then we
have the alias name e1 and e2 you can
see that
so you have taken that you have used
left join
left outer join also we can use and
we'll do the same thing
right easy
if you have understood left join now i
hope you guys have understood let's move
to the right join till then and let's
understand what is this
right join means that right table
everything will come
but the left table only
common details will come so have a look
what i've written write a query to
display
common details from employee
now i need only common details from
employee but all the details from
employee department
right
now query summons
you will get the query in your mind
itself right that what it will be
select star from employee
right join
employee department that means
the table which is in the right i want
all the details from there but the table
which is in the left i want only the
common details from that and you can see
from the employee table only the common
detail is coming only six data
when we were when we were using left
join
all the details were coming but now it's
opposite it's ulta right
see see from the employee department
table i'm getting every data all the
eight data
why there are blank spaces why there are
null values because there are two data
which is not matching which is not
common
that is why i'm getting a
blank space here
correct this is what is your right join
can you give example and how it works in
condition clauses
just surely i will uh try to code one
particular code where i can show you
that you know how you can put a
condition also
let me do that i'll go to my oracle and
here i have the
table let me show you how it looks
select star
from
let's say i'm writing employee okay i'm
writing employee and i'm putting right
join
right and then i'm putting employee
department
guys please look at this particular
query which i am writing right away this
is really very important as one person
has asked me that
please provide a condition or something
right
right so let's do that right join
employee department and here what we
will do is
okay so we have the condition now we
have to write the condition so have a
look what we are writing on employee
right so that's our condition so let's
write on
employee
dot
imp id
equal to
imp department
and then the imp id this is what is my
condition if i run this what will happen
i will get the same data you can see
once again there is a
employee write join
on employee.mpid
okay so here i have not used the dot
yeah so you can see you are getting the
table the same table which i have added
in the screenshot right the same thing
but now
suppose i want the
from this data i want only those
particular columns which is having
salary greater than
4 4 lakhs or 5 lakhs so what i should
write where
employee
why i'm writing employee because salary
column
salary column is on employee tables i'm
writing employee dot dot salary equal to
uh let's say
there are most of the things uh most of
the salaries which are greater than five
lakh so let's write five lakhs okay and
run this
am i getting all the data
which is having
salary greater than five lakhs yes i am
getting you can see
right so this is how you can use the
condition clause which is where right
and you can get the output perfect let's
move to the next topic which is nothing
but
pull join
so here what i have told you it's very
easy right everything will come here
everything
so let's do it and show it to you in
this particular example itself
i want to show you one more thing guys
have a look if i hit enter and if i
write here
select
star from
employee let's write full join
and let's say imp department
okay
now you can see there are two queries
which i've written here right now if i
run this what will happen you can see
invalid sql statement
right
why it is invalid because i have written
two queries in the same box what if i'm
selecting one of them and then i'm
running
okay so now it's saying missing keyword
because i have not written the
conditions how to write the condition as
well
let me write the condition employee id
is equal to
imp
department dot
right let's run this
let's do it one by one
let's run this
okay so i am getting the whole table if
you can see
what is this the full join right
now if you can see from the employee
table also i'm getting eight data and
from employee department table also i'm
getting eight data if you can see who's
here five two zero three two three six
two three seven till two zero eight
eight data and then from the department
also you can see i have eight data if
you want to see it see it from here also
six here
and then two here so we have the
total eight data from employee table and
we have all the eight data from the
department also
right so this is what is full join now
wherever the columns are not matching or
wherever the data is not matching there
we have the null values can you see
this is what is your full join
try to do this in your own systems guys
if you want try to do it and practice
more in your own oracle database engine
you will not be able to
gain confidence in this okay so try to
do that now let's see what we have done
full join can we write full outer join
yes we can can we use alias we can
can we use alias with full outer join
yes we can
anything is fine you just have to write
the query
correct okay so we have seen lot of
our different types of join but still
there are some of the joins which is
left right so let's talk about that
mainly where we use this query i'll tell
you where we use this query see
basically every organization every
bigger organization or any business
right will have database okay let's
imagine let's take an example of uh
myntra.com right in myntra you guys will
shop right
what we guys do vega is only shock but
we don't consider or think about what
happening what's happening in the back
end
basically our all details our all data
is getting recorded somewhere and all
those datas are recorded in the table
format like this
okay now suppose mintra.com wants to
know that which particular
customer is very frequent
in my app
who is very frequent in my app
like he has opened the myntra app every
single day so what he can do he can
write a query where he can write select
star from intra table where
the opening of the app
is very high right the amount of opening
the app is really very high
so all the list of names all the details
of those names will come up who have
always opened the myntra app so they
will get to know that these are our
regular customers we have to give
something to them or we can give some
offers to them so that they can again
shop
right
so these are the queries which actually
our organization or most of the
companies uses to play with the data to
manipulate with data okay suppose they
want to find some of the people who are
not at all using
mindra app from three years
then they can remove their account
they can remove their account from their
database correct so those are the things
now here
we are coming with the new topic which
is natural join now understand what is
natural join right because in the
diagrammatic representation i did not
tell you what is it right so let's
understand that
natural join is a join operation that
creates an implicit join clause for you
based on the common columns in the two
table
being joined so there are two tables
okay
there are two tables one of the column
is
common right
now what is happening in inner join
basically whatever
common column is there it's coming
duplicate right it's coming twice
remember i showed you that imp id column
was coming twice in the resulting table
right
but here in natural join it doesn't
happen so
see if if a question is there right
equal to display all the details that
means they want all the details
where the value of impid in employee is
equal to value of empire in employee
department then we have to use natural
join and we use natural join
then what happens
i'm getting only one employee id column
can you see
there is no other employee id column so
duplication of column is not happening
here so inner join and natural join is
somewhat similar but natural join is
better why because here it doesn't
duplicate any other column
it actually gives me only one column and
with all the other data but have a look
right this table is looking quite
amazing because we don't have any errors
in this
we don't have any duplicate row we don't
have any duplicate column this table is
looking perfect this is nothing but your
natural join okay one more thing
if we can use natural join as an inner
join can we use natural join as a left
join
certainly we can have a look natural
left join so whichever table is there in
the
left hand side it's all data will be
presented see all the eight data are
present
but from the um
employee department table only the
common details are present right
this is what is your natural left join
natural right join the same thing will
happen
so we have understood one thing from
here that duplication of the common
column will not happen
the second thing which you have
understood if you have noticed guys if
you have noticed
we are not writing the condition
on employee dot imp id equal to employee
department dot empire nothing we are not
writing the condition itself
this is the use of natural join this is
the benefit of using natural join so
these are the
two
major things major uh
benefit of natural join right it's a
natural right join
same thing
and naturals full join can you see
everything is coming every data is
coming eight data from employee table
and eight data from employee department
but employee id is only one column
right
so i hope you have understood natural
join now we are jumping into the cross
join
let's see what is cross join this is
really very fun
because here we multiply everything to
anything
let me tell you what is this
suppose if i have a table okay and i
have one row
suppose i have three rows
one two three four rows okay and i have
another table and here also i have four
rows 1 2 3 and 4. what will happen in
cross join it will cross it
what is cross
something like matrix multiplication if
you if you are from the science stream
you must be knowing matrix
multiplication what happens
this one row will get multiplied with
every other row of the table
every other row of the other table
then after that the second row from this
table will get multiplied with every
other row of the
other table
so what are we doing here we are
multiplying every
row of one table from every other row of
other table right have a look artisan
join or cross join this is what we also
call it as cartesian join or close line
returns the cartesian product of the
sets of record from the two or more join
tables see if i have these two tables
what will happen the very first row will
get multiplied with the very first row
of the second table second drop the
second table third row of the second
table and it will go on
so if the first row is yt multiplied
with the first that means eight rows
will come
one is the first one the second third
fourth fifth sixth seventh eighth
this will also give me eight this will
also give me eight this this this this
and this if you add these all
those many rows i am getting into my
resulting table those many rows i will
get into my resulting table and will
look something like this
so i have eight
data from aman
eight data from tanisha eight data from
her breathe which i have not given
because the table was really big this is
what is your cross join where do we need
it where do we use this
cross join can be used in any table any
database y
see if you want to understand that one
particular person is living in which
area
and what are the different cases like
suppose 206 aman male 24 which who is
earning 3 lakh 50 000 his department id
can be 21 can be 23 can be 22 can be
resolved
so he can he is the possibility of
working on all these department
like that if you want to cross you can
do it okay
this example certainly doesn't look good
when you talk about cross join but yes
we have certain different examples which
will explain why do we use cross one
okay the next one is sales join and this
is the last one so let's understand how
the cells join actually works
now the sql self join is used to join
table to itself
as if the table were two tables now we
have seen a lot of joins you have seen
inner join left join outer join right
join natural join cross join and you
have seen a lot of variations in these
joys right like if you talk about inner
join it actually tells me the common
data right and when you talk about cross
join it actually
cross joins both the tables and gives me
a very detailed
view of all the data but when you talk
about self join there are no two tables
there's only one table which is actually
joined with itself
now you will ask me how does that happen
right because if you don't have two
tables then there is no meaning of
joining anything right
now how does that happen now
to join the table itself means that each
row of the table is combined with itself
and with every other row of the table
okay now to understand this we have to
clearly understand the cross join
because it is much more similar than
cross join okay now
what is happening the table itself is
getting divided into two parts right so
let's say that i have a table which is a
student table
and what we will do is we will create
and this particular
self join whenever we will use decision
table will be
recreated into two tables student a
student b and then these two tables will
be joined okay now this division we are
not doing this division is happening
because of cell join itself so if you
look here we are using only one table
which is table one in the syntax
but
we have clearly said that it should be
divided into two tables table one a
table one b
and then from a table one we want the
column name
and from b table one we want the column
name the same column name
and the condition is that the
common field should be matching so
if you look here we have this particular
table in pi d name gender agent salary
just have a look clearly what are the
things present in this table because we
are going to use the self joint to this
table right
so
self joining means that whatever code we
are writing we are writing it in a way
that
two tables are created so we have
employee table
employee e1 is one of the table and
employee e2 is second table
from employee 1 we want employee id
and salary but from employee 2 we only
want the name
where employee one salary is less than
employee to salary
now you don't know this employee table
will get divided how and from where
let's say that this is from e1 this is
from e1 this is from e2 this is from e2
this is from e2 this is from e1
this is from e2 and this is from e1
some random selection will happen and
randomly these all tables will be
divided what i have written is just an
example now
in e2 we have this this and this data
and this data and what is it saying that
we want only the names from this table
so we want the names
ram vishal and rohan
and from employ one what all things we
need we need the id
right so we need these ids and we need
the salary so this
this
this and this right so these are the
things which we need or which we need to
display in our resultant table right but
the condition is
even salary should be greater than e2
dot salary so if you look here even
salary which is 33 lakh 50 000 the next
is 4 lakh 60 000 these all should be
greater than
the e2 salary which is eight like ninety
thousand feel like fifty eight thousand
five lakh sixty thousand and seven lakh
right now what are those data so those
data if you look here see three lakh
fifty thousand if you just see the
salary part right the tick ones are e2
and the underlying ones are e1 now you
have to make sure that which ones even
is greater than e2 so 4 lakh 60 000 if
you look here now to do this it's a very
tedious task right we can't do this
manually so let's see what
we have come up with
now if you look here i have created one
impide salary for employee one
and the only name from employee two
right now all these rows all the rows
from each of the tables will get
multiplied with each of the rows from
the another table and this will give me
an output of something like this
so we have 206
tanisha and then three like 50 000 206
similarly for all the things now we have
to understand that even salary is
greater than e2 salary where and all it
is there right so that is how you
actually
do these self join
now we are in our next topic which is
select from multiple tables without join
now this is very easy we don't have to
use join topic without join we have to
select from multiple tables this we have
already seen but let's see it once more
write a query to display all the details
of employees whose employee id in the
employee table is equal to the employee
id in the employee department table
without using joins
imp id in the employee table and imp id
in the employee department table without
using joins now if you talk about this
particular topic we have already seen
one of the
statement where we are not using joins
which is this
select star from employee e1 imp
department e2 where e1 dot impide is
equal to e2 dot imp d we are not using
joins but still we are getting the
all
joined
tables resultant table right
now this is one thing join multiple
tables with conditions
now with conditions also we have seen
one example but here we will see one
more example and try to understand that
how we can join multiple tables with
condition so write a query to display
salary employee id from employee table
this is one part
and department city
from employee department table this is
another part
whose employee id in implied table is
equal to the employee id in the employee
demand payable and salary is greater
than 4 lakh so this is one of the
condition now
that salary should be greater than 4
lakh so if you look at the query select
e1 dot salary e1 dot imp id e2 dot
department e2.ct from employee 1
inner join employee department e2 on
employee e1 dot implied equal to e2 dot
m5d where even that salary is greater
than 4 lakh this is what i wanted and we
are using a condition so we have only
these details
where the
employment salary is greater than 4
lakhs right so you can use a condition
like this by using a where clause
now the very important topic and the
last topic in joins which is how to join
three tables in sql so how you can
actually join three tables in sql let's
first consider three tables we have
employee employee department and
department very small table for this
particular example so we have an
employee where we have employee id
employee first name employee last name
we have employee department where we
have employee id and department id we
have department where we have employee
id department name and department head
id now if you see employee id is common
in
all the tables right that means these
are relational and if you clearly look
here we have the employee first name and
last name in the employee table
department id which is again
a primary key for employee department
and department name and department head
id is something which is
in department table right now we have to
join these three tables
can we join first of all the question is
can we join three tables yes we can join
three tables but the queries should be
written perfectly now if you look here
step by step i'm going to show you what
all queries we have written and how we
are joining so first we have written
select employee.employee first name
comma employee dot employee last name
for employee very easy what you will get
you will get all the
employee first name and employee last
name from the employee table that is
what i am getting right perfect these
are the just three tables which i have
shown you here to
show you that what are the content in
the table so that you don't get confused
next
now what i am writing select employee
dot employee first name employee dot
employee last name from employee
join employee department on employee
loading pid equal to employee department
dot infinity now we are using the join
keyword with employee department that
means
this one and this table is getting
joined together on what basis on
employee id basis
but we are only displaying first name
and last name make sure about that so we
are only displaying first name and last
name but
with in department table so
two one
and four twos
and one threes that is why these data is
also getting repeated so till now we
have joined two tables let's see what is
next
now select employee dot employee first
name employee dot employee last name
from employee join employee department
these are things we have done
next i'm adding
department or department name now i want
the department dot department name this
part also
in my
result
with first name and last name
so
department name first name and last name
these three things will be shown
on the basis of join department employee
id dot employee id so this is what is
the result on the basis of these three
unique ids or primary key we are getting
this particular result where we have the
department name first name and last name
and this is how you actually join the
three tables so this was all about joins
let's move to the next topic and let's
see what is there in the next topic
so now let's understand and clear out
what are the different sql commands in
oracle database and
what do they do and all the different
types of sql commands what are their
works individually right
so first of all let's see what all
typical sq commands do we have so if you
can see here
we have ddl dml dcl and tcl now these
are some of the four
main commands which we actually use ddl
is data definition dml is data
manipulation
dc news data control and tcls
transaction control language okay now
these all are
different in uh
work okay but we'll try to see all of
these in a separate and individual basis
we'll see all these commands individual
commands one by one
by example and we'll try to understand
how these all are different from each
other so let's first start with ddl and
let's see how this create drop alternate
truncate works now before jumping into
that let me tell you that this is
data definition language that means it
defines the data right so when you want
to create a particular table that is
where you are defining the data dropping
the table that means when you are
deleting that is defining the data
alter order means when you want to
change the data that is
definition truncate again delete so that
is also definition now you will try to
see here that drop
delete truncate are three of the
commands
which is looking like a similar
command right drop delete and truncate
all of them are nothing but
deleting but what is it deleting that
what we have to see so let's start with
ddl and let's understand what is data
definition so how to define data ddl
changes the structure of the table like
creating a table deleting a table
altering a table these are nothing but
changing the definition of the table all
the command of ddl are auto committed
auto committed means that once you are
writing that particular
program it's auto committed it's it
can't be changed okay that means it
permanently save all the changes in the
database
okay
the first one is create so it creates a
new table in the database this
particular command
no need to again revise because we
already know how to do this we are using
create table name
table table name and then the column
name data is whatever you want to put
this is what is the syntax of create
table we already know about this one
question based on this write equally to
create the table codes with columns such
as course id course name course duration
hospitality this is how you will write
the create table command for this
particular question
and i don't need to explain it because
we already know this let's move to the
next one which is drop
now understand what drop does it is used
to delete both the structure and the
record store in the table that means if
you have designed a table there will be
a structure right like two rows or three
columns or four columns there'll be a
structure and another thing which comes
here is data
so inside this table you'll have data
now when you're doing drop drop means
dropping that particular table the
structure also the record also
everything so when you're dropping the
table you are actually deleting
everything of that particular table cite
a query to delete the structure and
record of the table
then you have to use drop drop table
codes so once you do that
after dropping the table course if you
try to find the content of the course it
will say table or view does not exist
nothing exists even the structure is not
there right
and
once you try to find out the description
of that particular course table now what
is happening is object to be described
could not be found because there is no
table as such there is no structure also
so object to describe is could not be
formed okay now let's move to the next
one which is what happens if we try to
drop dual tables so this is one of the
question
dual table is a default table right and
if you want to drop it then what will
happen so if you want to drop the table
dual
table or view does not exist see dual
table is a default table which is
provided by a
oracle right now it is not a particular
permanent table it's just a table from
which you can play or which you can
practice so you can't drop dual table
now let's come back to the alter what is
alter it is used to alter the structure
of the database this change could be
either to modify the characteristics of
an existing attribute or probably to add
a new attribute so if you want to add
something or to modify something we use
this
now these three are very important
please understand it one by one to add a
new column in the table let's say that i
have three columns but i want to add one
more column it can happen right
that you have name age and gender but
later on you decided that we should have
ct also then
alter table table name
add column name and then column
definition
this is how you will write a one
particular syntax or enquiry to
add a new column to your table to modify
existing column in the table that means
if you have a column already and you
want to modify that then alter table
table name modify
the column name which you already have
what
particular change you want there
you rename existing column name in the
table if you want to rename the existing
column name
let's say that my column name is age and
i want to permanently change it to years
old not an alias do not get confused
alias is a temporary name change
this which you are doing is renaming
that means permanently changing the name
so rename column old column name
you can see here old column name to new
column name okay let's do some questions
write a query to add a new column in the
table course with columns such as course
fees so i want to add a new column alter
table course course is the table name
add course fees course views is my new
column name with this description
right
next question now if you see the
description of the course table you can
find course pc right
okay
now let's see next question write query
to modify the column course fees in the
table course which size is 20 now if you
look here the size here is 30 right
and now this particular column is
already there in the table now what i
want to do is i want to edit this
particular column i want to alter
something in this column so i want to
modify the column and i want to write
the precision to be 20 not 30 so alter
table course modify course is number 20
instead of 30 i've written 20
and you can see that it is not changed
to 20 right
next one write a query to rename the
column name course faculty in the table
codes with course trainer so i want to
replace the name course faculty course
trainer
so alter table course
rename column
course faculty which is the old name to
course trainer
right so table is altered and you can
see here that course faculty is not
changed to course trainer
right so this is what is altering let's
move to the next one write a query to
rename the table name course to course
description now i want to actually
rename the table itself so table name is
course but i want it to be our course
description there are two ways
alter table old table name rename to new
table name or otherwise what you can do
just write rename old table name to new
table name
so
we are just writing alter table course
rename to course description and
that is done or you can do rename course
to course description
right why i'm adding this screenshots
here to show you because this is the
proof that it works right so don't think
that i'm not going to the oracle and i'm
showing you because it will take time
that is why i've added directly the
description or the screenshots right so
now when you see the description of code
description you can find here that the
table name has been changed permanently
okay
so now let's move to the next question
which is write a query to delete one of
the column from the course table so i
want to only delete one of the
column alter table course course is a
table name drop column course name if
you want to only drop one of the column
then drop column course name course n is
the column name
this is done and you can see here that
column name is not there
right
okay
the next one the last particular command
is truncate let's see how is it
different from drop it is used to delete
all the rows from the table and free the
space containing the table
it is used to delete all the rows from
the table
and free the space containing the table
but
for structure there is nothing written
here so if i want to write a query to
delete all the rows and not this
structure
then we have to use truncate
so
no data is found but it is not saying
the table doesn't exist
it is just saying that data is not there
now once i want to see the description
of the this particular table what is
happening you can see here that
description when i'm truncating it is
not deleting the structure the structure
is as it is it's just that the data is
gone okay so truncate will just delete
the data or the rows
or the values but not the structure of
the table whereas drop actually drops
everything okay
now we are done with the ddl so now we
are jumping into the dml which is data
manipulation language that means how to
manipulate the data that means how we
can actually insert something inside or
delete something or update something
inside the values not to the table
now gmail commands are used to modify
the database it is responsible for all
form of changes in the database
the command of dml is not auto committed
remember that ddl is auto committed but
this is not auto committed that means it
can't permanently save all the changes
in the database it can be rolled back
it can be done undo
okay so insert the inserted statement is
sql query we already know what does it
do right so insert actually inserts the
values inside the table we already know
about that write a query to insert all
the values to all the columns of the
table codes
we do this and all the values will be
inserted it will look something like
this
right
okay the next one
this command is used to update or modify
the value of a column in the table so
once you want to update or modify the
value of a column then we use update how
do we do it update table name set column
name equal to value 1 column name code
value
whatever columns you want to change
if you have any condition you can put
the where condition as well so write a
query to update the value of the course
fees from 6000 to
ten thousand where course faculty is
rhythmic in the table course
so
we have the course we see here and we
want that six thousand should be changed
to ten thousand
wherever the core standard is written so
here and here
right so this is what i want how to
update this update course which is the
table name set course fees
equal to ten thousand where course
training is equal to lithium very easy
this is how you can do the updation
so select star from course now you can
see the rhythmic
course trend is having ten thousand
course fees right
now delete so it is used to remove one
or more row from a table again
drop drops everything truncate
just delete the rows or the values from
the table but keeps the structure
delete is used to remove one or more row
from a table that means
one data or one of the sale data only
that will be removed which one you want
to remove that will be removed write a
query to delete all the rows from the
table course where the course is taken
by
so i want to delete only those course
details which is taken by arithmetic
so delete from course where question is
equal to arithmetic i hope you
understood the
exact meaning of these three things drop
truncate and delete so do not get
confused because this is one of the very
important question asked in the
interview
so you can see rhythmic information is
now gone
next what happens when no condition is
specified in delete statement example
delete from course
so what happens when no condition is
specified in related statement let's say
i'm just putting delete from course so
everything will be deleted that means
every data will be deleted okay so if i
write select start from course it says
no data found and if i want to see the
description of the course it's
it is having this structure
the data is just gone it's having the
structure that means
if i write delete without the condition
it works like truncate
isn't it
truncate also does the same thing right
it just keeps the structure and deletes
all the rows so if you are using delete
command in dml
and not using any condition it works
like truncate itself right
that brings us to our third
command which is dcl which is data
control language so how to control data
right now how to control data is nothing
but there are two things
either we can control it by giving
permission or taking permission right so
there are two commands which is brand or
revoked now if you see here dcl commands
are used to grant and take back
authority from any database user so
either i can give privilege or i can
take the privilege that is what we do in
dcl
now grant it is used to give user access
privileges to a database
how do we do that grand privilege name
on object name to whomsoever you want to
give
now what is this privilege name public
and role name privilege name is the
access right of privilege granted to the
user
object name is the name of the database
object like table
and username is named the user to whom
an access right is being granted i'll
tell you how to do this let's understand
with an example
so once you download oracle you'll be
able to find sql command line itself let
me show you
so if you go to your start and if you
scroll down
we'll be able to find oracle
folder and inside that you will be able
to find run sql command line once you
open that this particular sql plus
command line will open and you can start
writing your grand revo commands right
now let's see what happens here i'm not
going to show you here but in the ppt
everything is given so let's
move back
so here what you can see is what we have
done here
we have the we are trying to do the
connection so we use pawn
con is used to do the connection we have
given the username which is system and
password i have given root it's
connected and then what i'm doing is
create user students i have created
another user which is named as student
and i want to give the password also how
do you give the password you give it
identified by a password so password
also is the student for me and the
username is also student
first user is created right
now
once the user is created what i can do i
can connect to student username
and not system so what i can do here you
can see
con
username student password i have given a
student once i hit enter it says user
student lags create session privilege
logon denied so what is happening it is
throwing error because system user has
not provided any privilege to the new
user student
so
from where i created this student user
from system right so system has to give
privilege to student so that this new
student user can be created
but we have not done that right
so what you have to do we have to
grant all privilege to student case here
grant all privileges to student once i
do that then what will happen you will
be able to
create a user and you'll be able to use
that
so we have to reconnect to the user
system to grant privileges
we just
disconnected and we again created it you
can see on system we created it and
grant all will be registered student
grant succeeded
earlier it was not succeeded because
we were out of the system user
authority
okay so users using system user
to grant all privileges to a new user
student and that is done now you can see
what we have done
so now we are trying to access con
connections student user connection it's
connected and you're creating a table
stud
with two of the things id and name
id being a number and name being a
varchar
that means now if i go back to my oracle
database the port number 8080
and if i try to log into student
database i will be able to find this
stud table
let's see so when i go back i can find
here in my student
particular database you can see username
student and i have the stud table here
with two of the things id and name
so this is how from system user we have
grant privileges to student user and
thus you have created the
things
or the tables so checking through
database home page right okay
now this was all about grant but what is
revoke revoke is taking back so it's
just like grant but it's the opposite so
rework will take all the accessibility
from your connection so
now what we will do here is
you can see i've connected to system and
i'm revoking all privileges from student
okay so revoke succeeded
what i have done here basically is i
have taken the privilege from
student
now it won't be able to create anything
so you can see here now if i try to
login with a student user student likes
creates such a privilege logon denied so
when trying to access new user student
it throws an error because i have
revoked all the privileges
how to list users in the oracle database
what all users you have created how can
you see all those users see by default
oracle also gives us the
all the list of users right and what you
have created will also be shown so to
list all users that are visible to the
current user that means if you are in
system user then for system user which
all users are visible
to see that you have to use select star
from all users
okay and if you want to see it in an
order ascending order descending order
then you can use order by created
okay
now list all users in your oracle
database no matter what user you are
using your insist or system or student
select staff from dba users will give
you
all the users which is getting created
in the oracle database of yours oracle
database
again you can sort it by order by
show the information of the current user
you want to see only the information of
the current user like which is system
then you can write select star from user
underscore users from these all commands
now let me show you some of these
screenshots which
we have covered so you can see here
select star from user users right so you
can see
user users as i told that it will show
you the current system detail so we are
in our system it is showing with the
current system detail select star from
user users when you'll be in student it
will show you the student details
correct so this is what is my
dcl which is
data control now let's move to the tcl
which is transaction control and
transaction control can only use with
dml commands like insert delete and
update what are this transaction control
let's understand that it is used to
control transactional processing okay
now what is this transaction processing
let's understand by
understanding two of the keywords which
are commit and roll back now understand
when we were learning about dml commands
we understood that insert delete and
update these are all
non auto commit things that means
permanently these are not getting saved
okay when you talk about ddl these are
all permanently getting saved because
these are auto committed
commands dml are not auto committed and
that is why tcl can only be applied to
dml commands because here what happens
is we can commit or roll back using the
commands so we have a command to commit
and roll back
ddl
we don't need it dml we need it
so in dmil dml we use commit commit
command is used to save all the
transaction to the database
so if suppose if i have this particular
query which is delete from department
where department name equal to marketing
right so one row is deleted but i
haven't i committed till now right now i
have committed it committed means
it's permanently done so statement is
processed
correct now if i do select start from
department i won't be able to find that
data
okay the next rollback rollback command
is used to undo transactions that have
not already been saved to the database
so we can actually roll back we can undo
so let's see delete from department by
department name equal to admin
so you want to delete from the
department table by department name is
equal to
admin so two rows are deleted right we
are roll backing that means we are
undoing it
now you can see here that we have
the admin details it's not deleted
so it's rollback it's undo correct that
is what is your
pcl which is also nothing but
commit and rollback so
you can do this as well you can see here
delete from department where department
name equal to admin commit and then roll
back now understand
once you have committed
you can't roll back if you see admin is
not showing here again
right
now what is safe point commit roll back
we have understood but what is safe
point understand it in a very easy
manner save points are like check points
so in a marathon you have some check
points right you reach one checkpoint
and then you go for another checkpoint
same thing happens here so we save we we
designed the checkpoints that once this
transaction is completed
put a save point there put a checkpoint
then move to the next some other queries
and then put a checkpoint so
if i have to actually
see the table of student one i have some
of these things id name gender is and
pass out here id is one name is rhythmic
gender is male
age is 26 passive years
2015 correct like that we have some more
data right
now what we are doing here is update
student 1
set age equal to 29 where name equal to
with weight so this is updated
and i have created a save point here
that means one flag i have raised here
okay that i can come back sometime
later and i can roll back this save
point that is upon me i can do that so
update student1 again i'm doing that age
30 where name is equal to 1 again i have
safe point at it
right so i have again raised the flag
here
why i'm raising a flag because i am not
sure whether the age is 30 of rohan or
whether the age is 29 of earthquake it
can be something else and i can come
back and i can roll back these
particular statements so those are safe
points okay
now you can see here that this has been
changed
right
okay now you can see roll back to save
point one
now i am roll backing to save point sp1
so you can see
i am rollbacking to sp1 that means sp2
will be
removed sp1 will be kept so you can see
rhythmic is 29 only but rohan 30 is now
roll back to 28.
if i would have written rollback
complete rollback then it would have
been changed
age also
right
so those were all the sql commands which
is ddl dcl
dml and dcl i hope easily you have
understood what are these things so now
we're in our last topic which is
database objects let's understand what
are these and why do we use it in sql
language or oracle database
so first of all database object is any
defined object in the database it is
actually created to make our life easier
when we are writing a query okay so it
can be creating a temporary table or it
can be creating a sequence of numbers it
can be creating a particular index for
one particular table can be anything
such like that now it is used to store a
different data anything which is make
from create command is known as database
objects so anything which you create
using create command is known as
database object it can be table also
because while creating a table we use
create command so it can be table it can
be a view it can be sequence index or
synonym now what are these let's
understand table basic unit of storage
we use it to store data it is composed
of rows and column we have already seen
a lot of times so table is one of the
object view is logically represent
subsets of data from one or more tables
so let's say that you have two tables
student and student department now from
these both tables you want to take some
data and you want to create a new
temporary data for your own purpose
okay so you want to take data some data
from student you want to take some data
from student department and you want to
combine together and create a another
kind of table which is called as view
okay and give a separate name for that
view
but that
data or that table is not permanent it's
temporary sequences which generates
primary key values like 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
or starting from 10 11 12 13
right that is sequence index it improves
the performance of some queries we'll
try to understand what is index and
synonym is just an alternative name for
all the objects so for table and
alternative name will be there view for
already name will be there for sequence
alternative name that is what is synonym
so let's start
understanding how to create this
table view synonyms index and
sequence okay so table
now we already understood how to create
table and you can see here what they
have done create table department
department id number two department name
market two departmental banker two and
table is created and once they describe
the department table they can see that
it is created with all the necessary
columns correct this is what is stable
coming to view now i've already told you
that it uses some of the permanent table
data and creates a temporary table for
you for your own purpose so
create view impinfo imp info is one of
the view which you have created for your
own purpose
what does this imp info contains it
contains
select imp id id number it contains the
employee id
fname and name concatenated
salary into 12 which is the annual
salary
from which table from employee table
where department id is 22.
so
this particular query
will be solved
let me write it again
this particular query till here to till
here will be solved whatever the output
will come that output table will be
the part of imp info
so it's a view it's just a window from
where you are actually
watching the original table okay so just
a temporary table for your own purpose
it's not a permanent table okay it's
just that from one table you are putting
out some data and putting it inside a
different temporary table for your own
purpose
so select star from info is giving me
you can see here the info is nothing but
will contain
the data
which
is having department ids 22
and
with their employee id
name f name
and annual salary these all things are
coming here this is what is your imp
info which is a view not a table
and if you look here if i want to use
this info i can use it select name
annual salary from in pin 4 where annual
salary is greater than 5 lakhs so i'm
getting these all things now understand
that
this particular output is coming from
this table and not the actual employee
table
right
cool right it's very cool okay let's
move to the next one which is sequence
if you want to create a set of integers
like one two three which is
automatically generated and supported by
many databases systems we can use
sequence how do we do that
create sequence sequence name start with
initial value first value whether you
want it to be 0 2 4 10 whatever
increment by how much you want to
implement by a two by one
minimum value should be how much maximum
value should be how much
cycle no cycle means whether the
sequence of integer will repeat or not
repeat
a very descriptive information about all
those things sequence name name of the
sequence initial value is starting value
input value by how much it will
increment minimum maximum value cycle
means when sequence reaches its set
maximum value it again repeats
and no cycle means even if it reaches
the maximum it will go on it will not
repeat
so here is one of the
screenshots so you can see create
sequence sequence one start with one
increment by one minimum value zero
maximum value hundred
right so this particular value will
start with one
till hundred
same way increment by minus one minimum
value one maximum value hundred so this
is nothing but to do it in descending
order because i am doing minus one so
starting from hundred it will go 99 98
and
goes on
okay coming to this particular portion
now you can see how we can apply the
sequence to my table
you can see the name of my sequence is
sequence underscore 1 and sequence
underscore 2 this is what i have given
the name to my sequences
insert into department values when i'm
inserting any value to my particular
table i'll use sequence underscore 1 dot
next val next val is something which
gives the next value the sequence
underscore 1 next val
will give me the first data that means
first sequence right so i'm getting one
here
sequence underscore one dot next value
is giving me second
if i would have used a sequence
underscore two dot next val then it
would have been start with 99.98 like
this
right so this is what it is your
sequence let's move to the index
indexes are a special lookup table that
a database search engine can use to
speed up data retrieval now what are
these these are basically kind of a
table which is used to
actually
make your task easier because search
engine can
find these indexes very soon
single column index syntax multiple
column index index and unique index
syntax there is no change you can see
here that if you want to have a single
column index index will write only one
column multiple column index syntax will
write two column of three column and
then unique index will have unique index
the same syntax will be there
and index helped to speed up select
queries and where clauses but it slows
down data input with the update and
insert statements indexes can be created
or dropped with no effect on the data
okay create index dpt on department
department id so i'm creating an index
for the department id column of
department table
index is created
create index department 1 and creating
an index for department 1
on department which are columns for
department id department name and
department trainer
i am creating a unique index now this is
single
this is multiple
and this is your unique one
right so i'm creating a unique index
department too on department only for
department name
right so this is how you create an index
and you can use this index whenever you
want but when it should be avoided when
the table is small when the table is
small don't do that the columns are not
often used as a condition don't do that
it's a waste of time right you have
already table then why do you want to
create an index column is updated
frequently
so don't use index at that time how can
you remove an index just write drop
index index
if you want to drop the view drop view
view if you want to drop the table drop
table table and you want to drop
sequence drop sequence sequence this is
how you can actually drop any of the
objects whatever you create drop table
we have already seen in the
ddl statements correct
confirming indexes syntax if you want to
confirm whether
we have that particular index or not
select start from user index
if you do this all the indexes whichever
you have created the list will come up
and show it to you select star from user
synonyms whatever synonyms you have
created whatever views you have created
whatever tables you have created
everything will be shown to you once you
write these statements
okay
dropping index we have done select start
from user indexes you can see department
2 is now not there
so we have dropped the index which is
department 2
right synonym
what is synonym synonym is basically to
create an alternative name for a
database
that means for table view sequence or
procedure for whatever you want to
create
a different name you can create so
create synonym branch for department
okay that means for department table i
want to rename it to branch i have
created synonym i can use branch also to
fetch the
um
details of department table
in the same way view can also be have
synonym create synonym basic info for
input info was my view do you remember
and we are changing it to basic info
then
for sequence remember we were having one
sequence which was sequence underscore
one and changing its name to sequence
underscore number one
and i'm using this and i'm still getting
the values
right
next one for index create synonym
department id for department this was my
first index changing the name this was
my second index changing the name
right and thus you your synonyms are
created you can see here
select star from user index when you are
doing it is not showing me the synonyms
which i have created it is actually
showing me the actual name why because
synonyms are not doing the permanent
change synonyms are just synonyms it's
temporary for
trial use or temporary use right
so this was all about
oracle database and this was all about
sql i hope that we have covered all the
topics around oracle and i hope that you
have understood it very clearly and
precisely so thank you so much for
watching this particular video i hope
you enjoyed it now before ending this
particular video let's revise what all
things we have understood so at first we
understood something about introduction
to sql introduction to dbms introduction
to ledgers computers and then how the
history of database came into picture
then we did the oracle setup and
installation we downloaded it i showed
you how to work with it from where you
will get which all things and then we
started using creating tables inserting
the data inserting the values inside a
table and slowly slowly we moved into
the part where i have shown you how you
can basically work with miscellaneous
topics which are nothing but your all
different kind of topics like alias and
the operators the operators as keywords
and then we also learned about some of
the sql commands like ddl dcl
dml and tcl and later on we also
understood how we can create views
tables synonyms indexes and all those
things not only that we have also taken
care about joins and sub queries which
are the most important topics when you
talk about sql language or any database
so thank you so much for watching the
video i hope you really liked it and
i hope that you have understood how
oracle works and how sql works in oracle
database thank you so much bye bye take
care
if you haven't subscribed to our channel
yet i want to request you to hit the
subscribe button and turn on the
notifications bell so that you don't
miss out on any new updates or video
releases from great learning if you
enjoy this video show us some love and
like this video knowledge increases by
sharing so make sure you share this
video with your friends and colleagues
make sure to comment on the video any
queries or suggestions and i will
respond to your comments
you